Russia launched a barrage of missile attacks across Ukraine on Thursday, killing at least six people and leaving hundreds of thousands of people without heat and electrical power. It was the largest such attack on Ukraine in three weeks, with Ukrainian forces saying they only shot down 34 of the 81 missiles that Russia fired, far less than the usual ratio, as well as four Iranian-made drones. Air raid sirens blared through the night across a wide swath of Ukraine, including in western Ukraine, far from the main front battle lines in the eastern regions of the country. The governor of the Lviv region said five people were killed there when a missile hit a residential area. In the Dnipropetrovsk region, officials said the Russian attacks killed one person and injured two others. "The occupiers can only terrorize civilians," Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy posted on Telegram. "That's all they can do. But it won't help them. They won't avoid responsibility for everything they have done." The Russian defense ministry said the attacks were in retaliation for a recent assault on the Bryansk region of western Russia by what Moscow alleged were Ukrainian saboteurs. Ukraine has denied the claim and warned that Moscow could use the allegations to justify stepping up its own assaults. Moscow said it hit military and industrial targets in Ukraine "as well as the energy facilities that supply them." Nearly half of the households in the capital of Kyiv were left without heat as were many in Kharkiv, Ukraine's second-largest city, where the regional governor said 15 Russian strikes hit the city. Around 150,000 households were left without power in Ukraine's northwestern Zhytomyr region. In the southern port of Odesa, emergency blackouts occurred due to damaged power lines. Among the weapons fired were six hypersonic Kinzhal cruise missiles, Ukrainian air force spokesman Yurii Ihnat said. Nuclear power fears Thursday's attack knocked out the power supply to the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant. The plant's operator, Energoatom, said diesel generators were being used to run the plant and that there was enough fuel available to continue for 10 days. International Atomic Energy Agency Director General Rafael Grossi called for urgent action, noting the Zaporizhzhia plant's power supply had been cut for a sixth time since Russia invaded Ukraine more than a year ago. "I am astonished by the complacency – what are we doing to prevent this happening? We are the IAEA, we are meant to care about nuclear safety," Grossi said. "Each time we are rolling a dice. And if we allow this to continue time after time then one day our luck will run out."
Zaporizhzhia plant is Europe's largest nuclear power plant, and repeated attacks near the site have sparked fears of a disaster. US outreach Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy invited the top U.S. House lawmaker to visit Kyiv to see “what’s happening here” in an interview broadcast Wednesday on TV news channel CNN. "Mr. [Kevin] McCarthy, he has to come here to see how we work, what's happening here, what war caused us, which people are fighting now, who are fighting now. And then after that, make your assumptions," Zelenskyy told the news outlet through an interpreter. Responding to CNN, House Speaker McCarthy said, “I don’t have to go to Ukraine or Kyiv" to understand it. He said he received information in briefings and other ways. Since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24 of last year, the United States has sent nearly $100 billion in military, economic and relief aid to Ukraine. That aid was sent when the Democratic Party controlled both chambers in Congress. No media source currently available The Republican Party took control of the U.S. House after the midterm elections, and some Republican have expressed opposition to sending additional arms and financial aid to Ukraine. McCarthy has said he supports Ukraine but that House Republicans will not provide "a blank check" for additional U.S. assistance to Kyiv without closer scrutiny of how it is being spent. In the CNN interview, Zelenskyy said, "I think that Speaker McCarthy, he never visited Kyiv or Ukraine, and I think it would help him with his position.” Many U.S. lawmakers and officials and world leaders have visited Zelenskyy in Kyiv as a show of solidarity, including President Joe Biden and former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Guterres visit Earlier Wednesday, U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres assailed Russia’s invasion of Ukraine as a violation of international law as he arrived in Kyiv for talks with Zelenskyy. The two were to discuss extending grain shipments from the war-torn country and securing the safety of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant. “The sovereignty, independence, unity and territorial integrity of Ukraine must be upheld, within its internationally recognized borders,” Guterres said ahead of talks with Zelenskyy. “Our ultimate objective is equally clear: a just peace based on the U.N. Charter, international law and the recent General Assembly resolution marking one year since the start of the war,” he said. But with fighting raging and no peace talks on the horizon, Guterres said the U.N. is trying “to mitigate the impacts of the conflict, which has caused enormous suffering for the Ukrainian people — with profound global implications.” He called for the continuation of Ukrainian grain shipments through the Black Sea with Russian acquiescence. Since July 2022, he said 23 million tons of grain have been exported from Ukrainian ports, much of it shipped to impoverished countries. Absent a new agreement, the program is set to expire March 18. Guterres said the grain exports have “contributed to lowering the global cost of food” and offered “critical relief to people, who are also paying a high price for this war, particularly in the developing world. Indeed, the Food and Agriculture Organization’s Food Price Index has fallen by almost 20% over the last year.” “Exports of Ukrainian — as well as Russian — food and fertilizers are essential to global food security and food prices,” he said. Guterres also called for “full demilitarization” of the region around the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, Europe’s largest, where nearby fighting has periodically shut down the facility and raised fears of a catastrophic nuclear meltdown. Attempts for months to end fighting in the region have failed, but Guterres said that safety and security near the power plant are vital so that the facility can return to normal operations. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Agence France-Presse and Reuters.