For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia's war on Ukraine. All times EST. 10:35 a.m.: According to the Luhansk Regional Military Administration, boys born in 2006 are now to be put on the military register by Russia's proxies in the occupied regions of Luhansk Oblast for their mobilization in the future. According to The Kyiv Independent, Ukrainian authorities do not have direct access to the temporarily occupied areas and appear to report this information relying on their local sources. Russia’s proxies are also continuing to draft older citizens to fight against the Ukrainian forces and have increased search measures for those who have evaded the draft. Once caught they will be detained and immediately taken to conscription points. Russian troops are facing great losses at 153,120 casualties as of March 5, according to Ukraine's General Staff. British intelligence said Sunday, that the mobilized are sent into battle with only “firearms and shovels,” resulting in bad physical and mental state. Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 5 March 2023Find out more about Defence Intelligence: https://t.co/1rgcwN71nQ pic.twitter.com/aoDmbCIQ6v 9:55 a.m.: Russia “has wasted huge amounts of human resources, armaments and materials. Its economy and production are not able to cover these losses said Ukrainian military intelligence chief Kyrylo Budanov. In an interview with USA Today, Sunday, Budanov predicted that Russia it will likely run out of offensive potential by late spring and added that neither the economy nor domestic military industrial complex will be able to help Russia, and it will lack resources to wage war against Ukraine if it “fails in its aims this spring.” Budanov said “a decisive battle” is about to happen this spring and predicted that “this battle will be the final one before this war ends,” USA Today reported. 9:17 a.m.: Estonians are voting in a general election, Sunday. Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has emerged as one of Europe’s most outspoken supporters of Ukraine during Russia's invasion. She faces a challenge from the far-right EKRE party, which argues that the current coalition government has given too many weapons to Ukraine. The opposition also blames the current government for Estonia’s high inflation rate. Preliminary election results are expected early Monday. Estonia broke away from the Soviet Union in 1991 and followed a pro - Western line, joining NATO and the European Union, The Associated Press reported. 8:45 a.m.: Two Ukrainian pilots are training on flight simulators in Arizona two U.S. officials said Saturday. So far Washington has not pledged to send fighter jets or sophisticated remotely piloted drones to Kyiv, Reuters reported. The U.S. and allies have sent Ukraine weapons such as Javelin missiles and HIMARS rocket launchers, but not sophisticated jets and the largest armed drones. The Arizona "familiarization event" is a first and will facilitate dialog between Ukrainian and U.S. personnel and provide an opportunity to observe how the U.S. Air Force operates, a U.S. defense official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. "This event allows us to better help Ukrainian pilots become more effective pilots and better advise them on how to develop their own capabilities," the defense official said. Other allies have also conducted similar events in the past, the defense official said. The defense official did not say how long the Ukrainians had been in the Southwestern state. The officials said there were no updates regarding F-16 fighter jet pledges to Ukraine. "It's about training them on their own planes," the administration official said, "not about F-16s." The U.S. has not begun any F-16 training of Ukrainians, Colin Kahl, undersecretary of defense for policy, told members of the House of Representatives Tuesday. 8:15 a.m.: Ankara is working hard to extend a U.N.-backed initiative that has allowed Ukraine to export grain from Black Sea ports blockaded by Russia since its invasion. Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said Sunday that The Black Sea Grain Initiative brokered by the United Nations and Turkey last July allowed grain to be exported from three Ukrainian ports. The agreement was extended in November and will expire on March 18 unless an extension is agreed. "We are working hard for the smooth implementation and further extension of the Black Sea grain deal," Cavusoglu said in a speech at the United Nations Conference on Least Developed Countries being held in Doha, Qatar. Cavusoglu also said he discussed the extension efforts with U.N. Secretary General Antonio Guterres, Reuters reported. On Wednesday, Russia said it would agree extending the agreement if the interests of its own agricultural producers are taken into account, Reuters reported. 7:45 a.m.: A woman and two children were killed in their house by Russian mortar shelling of a village in the southern Ukrainian region of Kherson, Andriy Yermak, the head of Ukraine's presidential office said on a Telegram post, Sunday. "Russian terrorists continue to kill civilians," he said, providing no additional details of the attack. Kherson was occupied by Russian troops from the early days of Moscow's invasion of Ukraine until its liberation by Kyiv's forces in November. Since then, the city has regularly been shelled from Russian positions across the Dnipro River, Reuters reported. 5:17 a.m.: The Institute for the Study of War, a U.S. think tank, said in its latest Ukraine assessment that Russian forces conducted offensive actions along the Kupyansk-Svatove-Kreminna line. Russian forces also continued efforts to encircle Bakhmut and conduct ground attacks along the Donetsk Oblast front line. Ukrainian sources continue to report that Russian forces are trying to set conditions for offensive operations in southern Ukraine. 4:09 a.m.: In a first, two Ukrainian pilots are in Arizona to fly flight simulators and be evaluated by the U.S. military, an American defense official said Saturday, as Washington remains mute on whether it will send fighter jets or sophisticated remotely piloted drones to Kyiv, Reuters reported. The U.S. and its allies have been flooding Ukraine with weapons from Javelin missiles to HIMARS rocket launchers, but sophisticated jets and the largest armed drones have not been pledged to Ukraine. "This event allows us to better help Ukrainian pilots become more effective pilots and better advise them on how to develop their own capabilities," the defense official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. The official said there were no updates regarding F-16 fighter jet pledges to Ukraine. 3:18 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry said that some Russia reservists said they were sent into battle with "firearms and shovels" as their only weapons. The shovels, the update said, were probably "entrencing tools being employed for hand-to-hand combat." Additionally, the update said, Russia is short of munitions, so troops are contending with less artillery support. 2:10 a.m.: From the beginning of Russia’s unprovoked invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24, 2022, incidents of sexual violence and sexualized torture by Russian troops were reported in areas they overran. Over the course of the war, as some Ukrainian territories have been liberated following weeks or months of Russian occupation, Ukrainian officials and aid workers say the number of such cases has reached the hundreds. But there may be many more, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty reported. "Whatever reports are surfacing can only represent the tip of the iceberg," said the U.N.'s special representative on sexual violence in conflict, Pramila Patten, at a Kyiv press conference in May 2022. "Wartime rape can no longer be dismissed as an inevitable by-product of war. It must be recognized by all parties as a crime that can be prevented and punished." Despite the widespread testimony and evidence, Russian officials deny that its troops have targeted civilians or committed war crimes during the invasion, which the Kremlin calls a "special military operation." 1:04 a.m.: Russia has reportedly used new 1.5-ton UPAB-1500B gliding bombs designed to hit highly protected objects at up to 40 kilometers, according to Ukrainian military-focused media outlet Defense Express, citing unnamed sources. The guided bomb, first unveiled at a Russian arms expo in 2019, has since undergone full testing, been delivered to the Russian air force, and received its first orders for export, the article said. According to its state-owned manufacturer, the bomb carries a 1,010 kilogram concrete-piercing high-explosive payload. The use of the bombs was reportedly recorded a few weeks ago in Chernihiv Oblast, according to Defense Express. The targets were not specified. Russia has made extensive use of air-dropped bombs in invasion of Ukraine, most notoriously in its strike on a drama theater in Mariupol in Donetsk Oblast on March 16 last year, killing hundreds of civilians sheltering inside. 12:02 a.m.: In the western city of Lviv, hundreds of kilometers from the front lines, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy met Saturday with the head of the European Union parliament, The Associated Press reported. In a joint press briefing with Zelenskyy, European Parliament President Roberta Metsola said that “all those responsible” for suspected Russian war crimes in Ukraine, including Russian President Vladimir Putin, must be brought to justice before a durable peace is achieved. Metsola voiced support for the EU’s announcement Thursday that an international center for the prosecution of the crime of aggression — the act of invading another country — would be set up in The Hague. She also called for Ukraine to start negotiations on joining the 27-nation bloc as early as this year and urged Western nations to keep arming Kyiv as it battles Russian forces in the east and south. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press and Reuters.