For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia's war on Ukraine. All times EST. 8:55 a.m.: U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres meets in Kyiv with Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and says during his third visit to the war-torn nation in less than a year that “Russia’s invasion of Ukraine is a violation of the U.N. Charter and international law. “The sovereignty, independence, unity and territorial integrity of Ukraine must be upheld, within its internationally recognized borders. “Our ultimate objective is equally clear: a just peace based on the UN Charter, international law and the recent General Assembly resolution marking one year since the start of the war. “Until that just peace can be secured, we continue working hard to mitigate the impacts of the conflict which has caused enormous suffering for the Ukrainian people – with profound global implications. “The United Nations has stayed on the ground delivering desperately needed humanitarian aid to millions here in Ukraine. “I want to express my deep solidarity with all the victims of the war.” 8:20 a.m.: Ukraine’s first lady has provided strong support to her nation’s people while visiting the United Arab Emirates, a country that still remains open to Russia despite Western sanctions, The Associated Press reported. Olena Zelenska on Wednesday described her role and that of other first ladies and gentlemen in the world as a real power while speaking before a packed ballroom on International Women’s Day. She also applauded the work of the average Ukrainian amid the ongoing war. She added, to cheers, that “Ukrainian women and men have been adapting so fast that our enemies have not been able to come up with new challenges for us.” 7:30 a.m.: In Stockholm, Ukraine's defense minister said Kyiv is in desperate need of large supplies of artillery shells to mount a general counter-offensive against Russia's invasion army, urging EU members to support an Estonian plan for joint procurement of munitions, Reuters reported. "We need to move forward as soon as possible," Oleksii Reznikov told reporters before an EU defense ministers' meeting. The General Staff of the Ukraine's Armed Forces said in its Wednesday morning report: "The enemy, despite significant losses ... continues to storm the town of Bakhmut." 7:00 a.m.: The head of Russia's Wagner mercenary group said Wednesday his forces had taken full control of the eastern part of the Ukrainian city of Bakhmut, as one of the bloodiest battles of the war grinded on amid the ruins, Reuters reported.. If the claim is true, it would mean Russian forces control nearly half the city in their costly push to secure their first big victory in several months. Ukrainian defenders remained defiant, though, and last week they appeared to be preparing for a tactical retreat from Bakhmut. But military and political leaders are now speaking of hanging on to positions and inflicting as many casualties as possible on the Russian assault force. 6:10 a.m.: German investigators probing the Nord Stream gas pipeline blasts searched a ship suspected of having transported explosives used in the incident, Agence France-Presse cited federal prosecutors as saying on Wednesday. The searches took place from January 18 to 20 over the "suspicion that the ship in question could have been used to transport explosive devices that exploded on 26 September 2022 at the Nord Stream 1 and Nord Stream 2 gas pipelines in the Baltic Sea", they said. Investigators are still trying to determine the identity of the perpetrators and their motive, they added. 5:55 a.m.: According to Reuters, a top European Union court on Wednesday granted a challenge to annul sanctions against the mother of Yevgeny Prigozhin, a close ally of President Vladimir Putin and the head of Russia's Wagner mercenary group fighting in Ukraine. The EU blacklisted Violetta Prigozhina saying business links with her son made her complicit in Russia's aggression against its neighbor, a former Soviet republic that now wants to integrate with the West. "The General Court annuls the restrictive measures applied to Ms Violetta Prigozhina, mother of Mr Yevgeniy Prigozhin, in the context of Russia's war against Ukraine," the bloc's second highest court said. 5:05 a.m.: ⚡️Governor: No reported civilian injuries in Donetsk Oblast over past 24 hours. For the first time since the start of the full-scale invasion on Feb. 24 last year, no civilians were injured in Donetsk Oblast, according to Governor Pavlo Kyrylenko. 4:35 a.m.: The United Nations said Wednesday it believes that a viral video showing the apparent execution of a captured Ukrainian soldier by Russian troops may be authentic. The footage appears to show a detained Ukrainian combatant standing in a shallow trench being shot to death with multiple automatic weapons after saying "Glory to Ukraine". "We are aware of this video posted on social media that shows a Ukrainian soldier hors de combat (not in combat) apparently being executed by Russian armed forces. Based on a preliminary examination, we believe that the video may be authentic," a spokeswoman for the UN Human Rights Office told Agence France-Presse. "Since Russia's armed attack on Ukraine over a year ago, the UN Human Rights Office has documented numerous violations of international humanitarian law against prisoners of war, including cases of summary execution of both Russian and Ukrainian POWs," she said. "Impartial and effective investigations must be carried out into all these allegations and those responsible held to account." Ukraine has vowed to take revenge for the apparent killing, which AFP could not independently verify. 3:50 a.m.: Agence France-Presse reported that EU defense ministers will discuss Wednesday plans to raid their stockpiles to rush one billion euros' worth of ammunition to Ukraine and place joint orders for more to ensure supplies keep flowing. Ukraine's Western backers warn that Kyiv is facing a critical shortage of 155-millimetre howitzer shells as it fires thousands each day in its fight against a grinding Russian offensive. Ministers meeting with their Ukrainian counterpart Oleksiy Reznikov in Stockholm will debate a three-pronged push to meet Kyiv's immediate needs and bolster Europe's defense industry for the longer term. Agence France-Presse had the full report. 3 a.m.: A concert cellist linked to Vladimir Putin moved millions through Swiss bank accounts without any proper checks, prosecutors will allege on Wednesday according to Reuters, in a case that highlights the murky financial dealings of Russia's ruling elite. Four bankers are accused of helping Sergey Roldugin, a close friend of the Russian president according to the indictment, deposit millions of Swiss francs in Switzerland. They are due to appear at Zurich District Court on Wednesday accused of lacking diligence in financial transactions. Roldugin has already been targeted by U.S. sanctions following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The U.S. Treasury Department has described him as part of a system that manages Putin's offshore wealth. He has also been sanctioned in Switzerland, whose government referred to him as "Putin's wallet" in its list of blocked people. The prosecutor is seeking suspended sentences of seven months for each of the bankers. The trial is expected to last one day. 2:30 a.m.: One of Australia's top government bureaucrats on Wednesday demanded Russia crack down on the large number of cyber criminals operating in the country, saying their actions posed a threat to national security, Reuters reported. The comments come as Canberra reforms its cybersecurity policy following a raft of cyberattacks on some of the country's largest companies. "The greatest density of cyber criminals, particularly those with ransomware, are in Russia," Michael Pezzullo, Secretary of the Department of Home Affairs, told the AFR Business Summit in Sydney. "They are not a rule of law country and the thought that you can apply conventional law enforcement disciplines ... is completely naïve,” Pezzullo said. “We call on the Russian government to bring those hackers to heel." A spokesperson for the Russian embassy did not immediately respond to a request for comment. 1:45 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 8 March 2023Find out more about Defence Intelligence: https://t.co/akaFr7xgND🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/VtkeZyXoj1 1 a.m.: European Union Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, addressing Canada's parliament yesterday during a visit to bolster support for Ukraine, said Europe would never accept Russian threats to its security, Agence France-Presse reported. "We will never accept that a military power with fantasies of empire rolls its tanks across an international border," she said in a speech more than one year after Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The 27-nation bloc, she added, "will never accept this threat to European security and to the very foundation of our international community," she added. Von der Leyen urged "steadfast military and economic support" for Ukraine while also renewing calls for Russia to "pay for its crime of aggression" after proposing in November to set up a specialized court to prosecute such crimes. 12:30 a.m.: World Athletics will once again help fund Ukrainian athletes' as they prepare for the August 19 to 27 World Athletics Championships in Budapest, the sport's global governing body said, according to Reuters. World Athletics announced it was renewing the Ukraine Solidarity Fund, plus several steps planned towards achieving gender equity as part of its #WeGrowAthletics campaign in celebration of Wednesday's International Women's Day. World Athletics distributed over $220,000 to more than 100 Ukrainian athletes in 2022. Female athletes, including hurdler Anna Ryzhykova, comprised 70% of fund beneficiaries. Russia invaded Ukraine in February last year in what Moscow calls a "special operation" since when 343 sport facilities have been destroyed, leaving an estimated 140,000 young athletes without facilities, while 40,000 athletes are training abroad. 12:01 a.m.: Hurdler Anna Ryzhykova, one of an estimated 40,000 athletes across all sports forced to flee Ukraine to train abroad after Russia's invasion, says she is fighting for her homeland in the best way she can — with her results on the track, Reuters reported. The Olympic bronze medalist has already qualified for the World Athletics Championships in August and the renewal of the Ukraine Solidarity Fund, announced by the sport's global governing body on Wednesday, will help ease her road there. The World Athletics backed fund distributed $220,000 to more than 100 Ukraine athletes in 2022. Ryzhykova fled her eastern Ukraine home of Dnipro within weeks of Russia invading the country in February last year in what Moscow calls a "special operation." Her coach Volodymyr Kravchenko joined Ukraine's Territorial Defense Forces. Some information in this report came from Reuters and Agence France-Presse.