For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia's war on Ukraine. All times EST. 5:11 a.m.: The Institute for the Study of War, a U.S. think tank, said in its latest Ukraine assessment that Russian authorities appear to be concerned over a growing loss of leverage in Serbia, which Russia has worked to integrate into the Russian sphere of influence for many years. Russian ultranationalists continue to debate the appropriateness of criticism of Russian war efforts and to react to proposed increased punishments for “discrediting” the war in Ukraine. 4:14 a.m.: The United States is hosting war planning exercises in Germany for Ukrainian military officers to help them think through upcoming battlefield decisions, officials said Thursday, Reuters reported. The multiday, table-top exercises have been carried out at a war-gaming facility at a U.S. Army base in Wiesbaden, Germany, where the top U.S. military officer, Army General Mark Milley, visited Thursday. U.S. officials declined to talk through the potential battlefield scenarios that Ukrainian military staff were examining during the drills, which involve thought exercises to evaluate potential military courses of action. "No one is sitting there telling the Ukrainians, go left or go right or do this or do that. That is not the job of the international community," Milley told reporters traveling with him to Germany. General Darryl Williams, the U.S. Army commander in Europe, praised the dozens of Ukrainian military staff who attended the drills, saying they were "really, really good." 3:12 a.m.: Washington is to announce a new $400 million military aid package for the Kyiv government, Reuters reported, and it is expected to be a major topic between U.S. President Joe Biden and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz when they meet at the White House, officials said. The aid is expected to comprise mainly ammunition including Guided Multiple Launch Rocket System (GMLRS) for HIMARS launchers, ammunition for Bradley Fighting Vehicles, as well as armored vehicle launched bridges, two U.S. officials and a person familiar with the package said. The United States has provided nearly $32 billion in weaponry to Ukraine to defend itself against Russia, which invaded its pro-Western neighbor on more than a year ago. 2:05 a.m.: Two Americans were arrested on Thursday, in an alleged scheme to send aviation-related technology to Russia in violation of U.S. export controls, Reuters reported. Cyril Buyanovsky, 59, and Douglas Robertson, 55, are accused of conspiring to circumvent U.S. export laws by selling avionics to customers around the world that operate Russian-built aircraft, according to an indictment unsealed in U.S. District Court in Kansas. The pair allegedly repaired and shipped technology from their firm, KanRus Trading Company, submitting false export information, such as a fraudulent invoice that showed Germany as the end destination for repaired equipment bearing a sticker for Russia's Federal Security Services (FSB). On Feb. 28, 2022, after U.S. authorities detained a shipment of avionics, the U.S. Commerce Department told the men they needed a license to export the equipment, the Justice Department said in a statement. In May, June and July, they illegally shipped the electronics through Armenia and Cyprus. The defendants are charged with conspiracy, exporting controlled goods without a license, falsifying and failing to file export information, and smuggling goods contrary to U.S. law. If convicted, they face up to 20 years in prison for each count of smuggling. Buyonovsky and Robinson could not immediately be reached for comment. 1:09 a.m.: A Russian regional politician will appear in court next week to face accusations that he discredited the armed forces by posting a video of himself listening to President Vladimir Putin's state of the nation speech with spaghetti draped over his ear. The video referred to the Russian saying that when noodles have been hung on someone's ear, that person has been strung along or deceived. Mikhail Abdalkin, a Communist party lawmaker in the Samara regional parliament, said on social media on Thursday that the Novokuybyshev city court would hear his case Tuesday. His party had previously reprimanded him. "We will fight to prove our non-involvement and innocence," he added. When Abdalkin posted his video shortly afterward Putin's speech on Russia's equivalent of Facebook, he added a caption saying he had been asked to watch the speech by the deputy chair of the Samara parliament. "I'm in full support, totally agree, great performance," he added. "I haven't heard anything like it in the last 23 years. Pleasantly surprised." 12:02 a.m.: Poland and Ukraine on Thursday called for international sanctions against Russia's nuclear energy sector, saying they feared their neighbor may hurt energy security and economies in Europe if attacks on Ukrainian power facilities continue, Reuters reported. Last week, the European Union adopted the 10th package of sanctions targeting Russia but did not include its nuclear energy sector because of opposition from some EU member states. "We need to end any nuclear cooperation with Russia ... and I believe Europe will manage to do so," Anna Moskwa, the Polish climate and environment minister, said at an energy conference in the Croatian capital of Zagreb. "Nuclear sanctions next package — this is our future challenge we need to face no matter how difficult it is." Russia occupied Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia nuclear power station exactly one year ago after launching its invasion. The plant, Europe's largest with six reactors, remains near the front line, with each side accusing the other of shelling it and risking a nuclear accident. "We are neighboring countries, every day we are analyzing what may happen," she said. Some information in this report came from Reuters.