For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia's war on Ukraine. All times EST. 11:15 a.m.: Scientists in Ukraine say the war there has contaminated the soil in large areas of farmland and may hinder the country’s agricultural production for decades to come. A report published Wednesday by Reuters says researchers looking at soil samples from taken from the recaptured Kharkiv region in northeastern Ukraine found “high concentrations of toxins such as mercury and arsenic from munitions and fuel are polluting the ground.” The scientists at Ukraine's Institute for Soil Science and Agrochemistry Research estimated that the war has degraded at least 10.5 million hectares of agricultural land across Ukraine so far. “Two dozen experts who spoke with Reuters, including soil scientists, farmers, grain companies and analysts, said it would take decades to fix the damage to Europe's breadbasket -- including contamination, mines and destroyed infrastructure -- and that global food supplies could suffer for years to come,” the report said. The Soil Institute’s director, Sviatoslav Baliuk, said damage could reduce Ukraine’s grain harvest by 10 to 20 million tons per year – up to a third of the country’s pre-war output. 10:15 a.m.: Russia said Wednesday it would only agree to extend the Black Sea grain deal, which allows grain to be safely exported from Ukrainian ports, if the interests of its own agricultural producers are considered, Reuters reports. The Black Sea Grain Initiative, brokered by the U.N. and Turkey last year, expires on March 18 and cannot be extended unless all parties agree. Russia has already signaled its dissatisfaction with parts of the deal.

Russia's agricultural exports have not been specifically targeted by Western sanctions, but Moscow says restrictions on its payments, logistics and insurance industries are a "barrier" to it being able to export its own grains and fertilizers. 9:00 a.m.: The Ukrainian military has not made a decision to withdraw from the embattled eastern city of Bakhmut, a military spokesperson told CNN Wednesday. Serhii Cherevatyi, spokesperson for the Eastern Grouping of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, said if the threat to Ukrainian personnel and operational situation is greater than the need to hold the city, Ukraine will withdraw the troops. "I can say that there is no such decision now,” he said. An adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said earlier that Ukraine may pull back from the city, which has been under steady Russian attack. 8:35 a.m.: Belarusian ruler Alexander Lukashenko begins a three-day state visit to Beijing, RFE/RL reports. Lukashenka is a key Kremlin ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin. And his trip is an attempt to offset Belarus’s political and economic reliance on Moscow, which has grown even more dependent on Russian energy, security, and financial assistance following large-scale anti-government protests in 2020 and Minsk’s increased international isolation since the war in Ukraine started.

It’s an opportunity for Lukashenka to court Chinese investment and comes as the authoritarian leader has moved carefully during the yearlong war. Belarus has hosted Russian troops and was a launching pad for Moscow’s invasion, though it has refrained from committing its forces to the grinding conflict.

“This visit has symbolic meaning for Lukashenko, and it can help lend some credibility to the idea that he isn’t as isolated as he was in the past,” Katsiaryna Shmatsina, an expert on Belarusian politics at Virginia Tech university, told RFE/RL. 7:40 a.m.: U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken expressed doubt Wednesday about how serious Russia and China are about achieving peace in Ukraine, citing a lack of substantive steps by either to back up statements showing support for a peace effort, according to reports by Reuters and The Associated Press. Speaking during a visit to Uzbekistan, Blinken told reporters that if Russia were genuinely prepared to engage in meaningful diplomacy to end its aggression, then the United States would be quick to engage in that effort. But he said Russia’s actions, including President Vladimir Putin’s demands that Ukraine recognize Russia’s control over parts of Ukrainian territory, show Russia is not interested in that path. “The real question is whether Russia will get to a point where it is genuinely prepared to end its aggression and do so in a way that is consistent with the United Nations charter and its very principles.” 6:55 a.m.: The AP reports Ukraine’s military might pull back from the eastern stronghold of Bakhmut as Russia presses an offensive to capture the city. An adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Wednesday that Ukraine could strategically roll back its troops from the devastated city, adding, “We’re not going to sacrifice all of our people just for nothing.” 6:05 a.m.: Agence France-Presse reported that Belarus president and close Kremlin ally Alexander Lukashenko said during a visit to China Wednesday that his country fully supports an initiative put forward by Beijing to achieve peace in Ukraine. "Today's meeting is taking place at a very difficult time, which calls for new, unorthodox approaches and responsible political decisions," Lukashenko told China's President Xi Jinping. "They should be aimed at first and foremost preventing a slide into a global confrontation that will see no winners," he said. "That is why Belarus is actively coming up with peace proposals, and fully supports the initiative on international security you have put forward," Lukashenko told Xi in remarks released by his aides. He also said that Belarus wanted to increase technological cooperation with China. 5:45 a.m.: Reuters reported that a Polish government official said on Wednesday that Russia was behind a hacking attack that blocked users' access to the online tax filing system, amid persistent high tensions between Warsaw and Moscow over the war in Ukraine. Western officials say the Russian government is a global leader in hacking and uses cyber-espionage against foreign governments. Moscow has consistently denied that it carries out hacking operations. "Russians are responsible for yesterday's attack, it must be made clear. We have information that makes it very likely that this was the adversary," Janusz Cieszynski, an official responsible for digitalization, told broadcaster Polsat News. The Russian embassy in Warsaw said in an emailed response requesting comment that it is "already used to the fact that in the West you can now accuse Russia of anything without evidence. This is another such case in the well-known style of saying it is 'highly likely'." Cieszynski said the attack had consisted of distributed denial of service but that there had been no leaking of taxpayers' data. "This is an attack that blocks access to the site but does not block security and put our data at risk," he said. 5:15 a.m.: For all of President Vladimir Putin’s upbeat talk of expecting “some growth” across the board this year, retail sales remain in a contraction that’s already more drawn out than its declines during the global pandemic https://t.co/ifx6gN8XSq 4:50 a.m.: Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov held talks with his Indian counterpart Subrahmanyam Jaishankar in New Delhi on Wednesday, a day before attending the G-20 foreign ministers meeting, Indian and Russian officials said according to Reuters. The two ministers assessed the current security situation in the context of the Russia-Ukraine conflict and ironed out issues on the use of local currencies for settling trade, said a senior Russian official. Lavrov is scheduled to meet his Chinese, Bangladeshi and South African counterparts later on Wednesday, the official added. "We will urge our constructive colleagues in the G-20 to convert to national currencies, to align clearing and settlement mechanisms, and to create independent insurance plans and transport routes," the Russian embassy in New Delhi said in a statement ahead of the meetings. "We will describe in detail Russia's actions to reduce these threats and diversify foreign economic ties and logistics corridors." India has refused to blame Moscow for the Ukraine conflict, while seeking a diplomatic solution and sharply boosting its purchases of Russian oil. 4:15 a.m.: Reuters reported that Hungarian President Katalin Novak urged lawmakers on Wednesday to ratify Finland and Sweden's NATO entry "as soon as possible" as deputies started debating the motions after months of the bills being stranded in parliament. Sweden and Finland applied last year to join the transatlantic defense pact after Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine. But all 30 NATO members need to back the applications and Sweden has faced objections from Turkey for harboring what Ankara considers to be members of terrorist groups. Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said on Monday talks with Sweden and Finland over their NATO membership bids would resume on March 9, although he said Sweden had still not fulfilled its obligations under a memorandum signed last year. With Hungary's ratification process stranded in parliament since July, nationalist Prime Minister Viktor Orban aired concerns about Sweden and Finland's NATO membership for the first time last Friday. Among other criticisms, he has accused both countries of spreading "outright lies" about the health of democracy and the rule of law in Hungary. "It is a complex decision, with serious consequences, so careful consideration is necessary," Novak said on Facebook. "My position is clear-cut: in the present situation, the accession of Sweden and Finland is justified. I trust the National Assembly will make a wise decision as soon as possible." Nationalist Orban said more talks were needed between parliamentary groups before lawmakers vote on the membership bids, which they will begin debating on Wednesday. Finnish Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto on Tuesday said Hungary intends to send a parliamentary delegation to Finland on or around March 9 to discuss the Nordic nation's pending NATO membership. Orban's chief of staff on Saturday said a vote on ratification may take place only in the second half of March. 3:30 a.m.: The Russia-Ukraine conflict will form an important part of discussions at a G-20 foreign ministers meeting, but host India is confident that economic challenges created by the war will get equal attention, India's foreign secretary said on Wednesday according to Reuters. "Yes, given the nature and the developing situation in the Russia-Ukraine conflict, it will be an important point of discussion," Vinay Kwatra, India's top diplomat, told reporters on Wednesday, as foreign ministers arrived in New Delhi for the meeting. "Questions relating to food, energy and fertilizer security, the impact that the conflict has on these economic challenges that we face," among others, would also receive "due focus," Kwatra said. The meeting will be attended by 40 delegations including Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Chinese Foreign Minister Qin Gang. After a welcome dinner later on Wednesday, discussions will be held on Thursday. G20 includes the wealthy G7 nations as well as Russia, China, India, Brazil, Australia and Saudi Arabia, among other nations. The meeting comes days after a meeting of finance chiefs of G-20 countries in Bengaluru which was overshadowed by Russia's war in Ukraine. 2:10 a.m.: NEW: Russian authorities appear to be escalating their promotion of false flag information operations to distract from their lack of tangible battlefield gains & slow down the provision of Western military aid ahead of expected Ukrainian counteroffensives. https://t.co/50QKAMBmZ5 pic.twitter.com/ukBxBVtX1i 1:45 a.m.: Denmark's parliament on Tuesday adopted a controversial bill to abolish a public holiday to put more money toward its military, a priority following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Agence France-Presse reported. After weeks of protests against the government plan, 95 MPs voted in favor and 68 against. Denmark's left-right government coalition, in power since December and led by Social Democratic Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen, announced plans in January to scrap the religious holiday known as Great Prayer Day and observed since the 17th century. The cancellation would provide $427 million more to state coffers, thanks to an additional 7.4 hours of labor per worker, according to the government. 1:15 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 1 March 2023Find out more about Defence Intelligence: https://t.co/dvFMKA4JLH pic.twitter.com/8NrGdgyaCl 12:55 a.m.: Ukraine has sent an appeal to the U.N. and Turkey to start negotiations on extending a grain export deal, but there has been no response, a Ukrainian government source said on Tuesday. Yuriy Vaskov, Ukraine's deputy minister of restoration, told Reuters last week that Kyiv would ask all sides to start talks to roll over the deal, seeking an extension of at least one year that would include the ports of Mykolaiv. The Black Sea Grain Initiative brokered by the U.N. and Turkey last July allowed grain to be exported from three Ukrainian ports. The agreement was extended in November and will expire on March 18 unless an extension is agreed. A major global grain grower and exporter, Ukraine's grain exports were down almost 27% at 31.8 million metric tons in the 2022/23 season as of February 27, impacted by a smaller harvest and logistical difficulties caused by the Russian invasion. Ukraine exports around 3 million metric tons of agricultural products a month under the deal, but Vaskov said Ukraine was able to export 6 million metric tons a month from the ports of Odesa region and boost it to 8 million metric tons if Mykolaiv joins. 12:01 a.m.: Finland's parliament moved closer Tuesday toward accelerating its bid to join NATO, increasing the likelihood that it would leave its neighbor Sweden behind to rapidly enter the trans-Atlantic defense pact, Agence France-Presse reported. A vote is scheduled by Finnish MPs on Wednesday afternoon for speeding up the ascension process, as the two countries have the backing of all but two of NATO's 30 members, the holdouts being Hungary and Turkey. Many Finnish lawmakers have pushed for legislation affirming that Finland accepts the terms of the NATO treaty even before elections on April 2. Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said on Monday that Ankara now looks favorably on Finland's bid. While passing the bill does not mean that Finland will automatically join NATO after ratification by Turkey and Hungary, it puts in place a deadline for how long it can wait for Sweden. Some information in this report came from Agence France-Presse and Reuters.