For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia's war on Ukraine. All times EST. 2:20 a.m.: Ukrainian Marta Kostyuk dedicated her first WTA singles title to those "fighting and dying" in her home country amid Russia's ongoing invasion after she defeated Russian Varvara Gracheva 6-3 7-5 to win the inaugural Austin Open on Sunday. Reuters reported that the 20-year-old collapsed on the court and covered her face with her hands after securing the title but declined to shake the hand of her Russian opponent at the net. "Everyone who is in the stands and everyone who is watching, especially in Ukraine, I want to say 'Slava Ukraini,'" Kostyuk said during the trophy ceremony. The Ukrainian phrase translates to "Glory to Ukraine." "Being in the position that I'm in right now it's extremely special to win this title. I want to dedicate this title to Ukraine and all of the people who are fighting and dying right now." 1:45 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 6 March 2023Find out more about Defence Intelligence: https://t.co/HPcqkaCGaq pic.twitter.com/1J60pMXGag 12:35 a.m.: The Kyiv Independent tweeted that a Russian propagandist claims he came under fire in Donetsk Oblast. ⚡️Russian propagandist claims he came under fire in Donetsk Oblast.Russian propagandist Vladimir Solovyov said on the Rossiya-1 TV channel on March 5 that he had come under fire while visiting a Russian marine brigade near the town of Vyhledar in Donetsk Oblast.  12:01 a.m.: Put off by the Estonian government's hawkish stance on Russia, many Russian speakers are expected to stay away from elections on Sunday even though they oppose the war in Ukraine, Agence France-Presse reported. Russian speakers, who make up a quarter of the population, are also concerned about the support of almost all the main parties for a new law for Estonian-only education in schools. "A very big part of the Russian-speaking population of Estonia has definitely kept strong ties to Russia," said Rein Toomla, a political expert from the Johan Skytte Institute. The results have now been called. Some information in this report came from Agence France-Presse.