Western powers say they have intercepted another illicit shipment of Iranian weapons, the seventh such seizure in the past three months. The seizure, announced Thursday by Britain, took place last month in the Gulf of Oman. Britain's Defense Ministry said it began tracking the Iranian vessel on February 23 when it noticed the ship traveling at high speeds under the cover of darkness. Royal Marines then boarded the ship after the suspected smugglers initially ignored calls from Britain's HMS Lancaster and tried to return to Iranian territorial waters. The United States said Thursday that it provided airborne surveillance during the operation, which took place "along a route historically used to traffic weapons unlawfully to Yemen." Both Britain and U.S. Naval Forces Central Command, based out of Bahrain, said the Iranian ship was carrying Iranian versions of Russia's 9M133 Kornet anti-tank guided missiles and medium-range ballistic missile components. Photos of #Iran|ian weapons seized by #Britain during an operation in the #GulfofOman last month@US5thFleet says US forces helped w/airborne ISRCargo included Iran's versions of #Russia's 9M133 Kornet anti-tank guided missiles & medium-range ballistic missile components pic.twitter.com/iZScu658Ey Britain's ambassador to the United Nations, Barbara Woodward, said Thursday on social media that she has notified the U.N. Security Council of the seizure. According to the U.S., this is the seventh time in just the last three months that Western allies have intercepted Iranian vessels trying to smuggle weapons and drugs out of Iran. Those naval interdictions have led to the seizure of more than 5,000 weapons, 1.6 million rounds of ammunition, 7,000 proximity fuses for rockets, 2,100 kilograms of propellant for rocket propelled grenades, 30 anti-tank guided missiles, medium-range ballistic missile components and $80 million worth of illegal drugs, the U.S. said. Earlier this week, a top U.S. defense official warned Iran's increased cooperation with Russia has made the regime in Tehran a "global challenge." Speaking with reporters Tuesday, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense Dana Stroul called for "a global coalition to push back on the malign cooperation between Iran and Russia." VOA's Margaret Besheer and Chris Hannas contributed to this report.