For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia's war on Ukraine. All times EST. 1:30 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 2 March 2023Find out more about Defence Intelligence: https://t.co/JLbCLAmUDt pic.twitter.com/UKi92cA9Jx 1 a.m.: Agence France-Presse reported that Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that multilateral institutions had failed to meet the world's most pressing challenges while opening the G-20 foreign ministers' meeting in New Delhi. Russia's invasion of Ukraine is set to dominate the meeting of the world's top diplomats, with host India laboring to avoid the discord that ended its last G-20 meeting. "We must all acknowledge that multilateralism is in crisis today," Modi said in a recorded statement. "The experience of the last few years — financial crisis, climate change, pandemic, terrorism and wars — clearly shows that global governance has failed." While India shares Western concerns about China, it is also a major buyer of Russian arms and has ramped up Russian oil imports. India has not condemned the Ukraine invasion, although Modi told Putin last year that this was "not a time for war" in comments seen as a rebuke to Moscow. Modi on Thursday implored G-20 delegates to make the meeting a success while tacitly acknowledging the bloc's deep divisions over the conflict. "We should not allow issues that we cannot resolve together to come in the way of those we can," he said. 12:30 a.m.: The #Kremlin may leverage an amendment to #Russia’s Criminal Code increasing punishments for "discrediting" the war in #Ukraine to promote further self-censorship among the critical ultranationalist community.https://t.co/HAdpyZz7oC pic.twitter.com/OyG8Fw7Nsa 12:01 a.m.: The latest rotating team of experts from the U.N.'s nuclear watchdog has failed to take up its duties at the Russian-occupied Zaporizhzhia nuclear power station, a senior Russian official told TASS on Thursday, according to Reuters. Russia has accused the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) of disrupting the latest rotation of staff at the plant, Europe's largest with six reactors. The facility was occupied by Russian troops in the early days of their invasion of Ukraine and remains near the front line, with each side accusing the other of shelling it and risking a nuclear accident. "It is true that the rotation of specialists which is planned for once a month, has been excessively delayed," Mikhail Ulyanov, Russia's representative to the IAEA in Vienna, told Russia's TASS news agency. "It was supposed to occur on February 7, but hasn't yet happened, through no fault of our own. We expect the changeover of experts to take place very soon, in the next few days," he said. IAEA monitors have been posted at the station since last September. Other IAEA teams have since been put in place in Ukraine's three other nuclear plants. IAEA Director General Rafael Grossi said on Monday he hoped the changeover would take place this week, the agency said in a statement. He also said the agency's teams had reported more explosions near the plant, which on several occasions have caused it to lose its only remaining back-up power line. Some information in this report came from Reuters.