For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia's war on Ukraine. All times EST. 8:17 a.m.: North Korean state media reported Saturday allegations that Western nations were involved in blasts that damaged Russia's undersea Nord Stream gas pipelines last year. Moscow says, without providing evidence, that the West was behind the blasts that damaged the pipelines in September and has called for an international investigation. Western officials have denied those accusations. In an article carried by North Korean state news agency KCNA, international affairs critic Ahn Cheol-hyuk backed Russian calls for an impartial investigation, saying the world needs to be aware of the "vicious coerciveness, war and conspiracy maneuvers of the United States." Investigators from Sweden and Denmark - in whose exclusive economic zones the explosions occurred - have said the explosions were a result of sabotage but have not said who they believe was responsible. North Korea has publicly supported Moscow since Russia invaded Ukraine a year ago and expressed support for Russia's proclaimed annexation of parts of Ukraine, which most countries have rejected. The United States has accused North Korea of providing weapons to Russia as well. Both Pyongyang and Moscow have denied that, Reuters reports. 7:45 a.m.: Yevgeny Prigozhin, founder of Russia's Wagner Group mercenary force, posted a video on Saturday showing allegedly coffins, he said, contained bodies of Ukrainian soldiers being sent to territory held by Kyiv. In the video, Prigozhin, wearing military gear, said: "We are sending another shipment of Ukrainian army fighters home. They fought bravely and perished. That's why the latest truck will take them back to their motherland." The footage shows men in uniform nailing wooden coffins shut and loading them onto a truck. Prigozhin, whose Wagner Group has spearheaded Russia's months-long assault on the easter city of Bakhmut has repeatedly praised the Ukrainian army as a worthy and capable adversary, Reuters reports. 5:20 a.m.: The Institute for the Study of War, a U.S. think tank, said in its latest Ukraine assessment that Russian forces continued offensive operations along the Kupyansk-Svatove-Kreminna line.
Russian forces also continued ground attacks along the Donetsk Oblast front line as Ukrainian forces appeared to prepare for a controlled withdrawal from at least parts of Bakhmut. 4:25 a.m.: Thousands of Ukrainians who fled to Spain after Russia invaded their country last year are still waiting for promised payments of $425 a month in the Spanish regions where most of the refugees live. The central government promised in June that the "most vulnerable" Ukrainians would receive monthly help from a $56 million fund, with direct payments made through Spain's regional administrations. The payments have yet to be disbursed in the Valencian Community, Catalonia and Madrid regions, The Associated Press confirmed Friday. The three regions together are home to more than two-thirds of 168,000 Ukrainians registered by the Interior Ministry as under temporary protection in Spain. Spanish media reported that up to eight regions have yet to make any of the promised payments. The Inclusion Ministry, which oversaw the policy, told the AP it gave the funds to Spain's regional governments in October. The ministry expected 40,000 applications. Applications opened to Ukrainians registered as living in Madrid in late November, and in December in the Valencian Community and Catalonia. The Catalan region's government said it had received more than 6,000 applications so far and had not yet processed them all. Regional government officials in Catalonia and Madrid told the AP they blamed the central government and the complexity of the documentation required for the delays. The Inclusion Ministry said it had met its responsibility and the money was now the administrations' responsibility. 3:12 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry said Russia is attacking the Ukrainian town of Bakhmut "with intense fighting taking place in and around the city." The northern suburbs, currently held by Ukraine, are vulnerable on three sides, the update noted. Ukrainian forces are reinforcing the area. Still, Ukraine's resupply routes out of the town are "increasingly limited." 2:12 a.m.: Russia’s missile strike on Jan. 14 caught Kyiv residents off-guard. After nearly a year of Moscow’s repeated attacks, something unusual happened: The explosions sounded before the air raid alert went off, which is rarely the case in what is believed to be the most protected city in Ukraine. On that day, Russia launched the first officially confirmed attack on Kyiv with the S-400 surface-to-air missile system, the newest and most advanced air defense system in Moscow’s arsenal. The S-400 was also likely used in the attack on Kyiv on Dec. 31, according to the Air Force of Ukraine. Russian forces have been using other air defense systems, such as S-300, for strikes on Ukrainian cities presumably because of a shortage of high-precision missiles. Designed primarily to take down targets in the air, these systems also have a surface-to-surface function. When used in this way, their key difference compared to other types, such as cruise missiles, is their extremely poor accuracy. 1:10 a.m.: Ukraine's top prosecutor said Friday the country is moving toward opening an office of the International Criminal Court as Kyiv seeks to establish a special tribunal to prosecute the leadership in Moscow, Agence France-Presse reported. The ICC is investigating possible war crimes and crimes against humanity during the war on Ukraine. "Today, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved a memorandum between the Ukraine government and the International Criminal Court, which will allow the opening of the office of the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court in Ukraine in the near future," Andriy Kostin said. Kostin told a justice conference in Lviv, western Ukraine, it will "allow the ICC prosecutor to more fully investigate international crimes committed in Ukraine." 12:02 a.m.: One year after he penned an anti-war plea on a TV camera lens, Russian tennis player Andrey Rublev on Friday reiterated his call for peace, saying it is crazy to see "normal citizens suffering and dying" as the Ukraine conflict rages on, Agence France-Presse reported. "Of course it's tough. It's hard to talk about it because even if you try to just play tennis or something, to stay practicing and stuff, you know it's affecting you," said the 25-year-old. "You cannot act like nothing is happening because it's horrible. It's crazy that so many just normal citizens are suffering, dying. "The only thing I hope is that soon there will be peace in every country." Some information in this report came from Agence France-Presse.