For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia's war on Ukraine. All times EDT. 4:45 a.m.: Turkey's defense ministry said on Tuesday that talks over the extension of a deal that allows the export of Ukrainian grain on the Black Sea is still continuing. Reuters reported that, in a statement, the ministry cited Russia as agreeing to back a 60-day extension to the deal, brokered between Moscow and Kyiv in July by Turkey and the United Nations. Russia said the deal had been extended for 60 days, but Ukraine said the agreement allows only a 120-day extension. 4:10 a.m.: Ukraine will stick to the terms of the previously signed agreement on a 120-day extension of the Black Sea grain export initiative, Reuters cited a senior Ukrainian government official as saying on Tuesday. "We will follow the agreement strictly," the official, who declined to be named, told Reuters. Russia's TASS news agency cited Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Grushko as saying on Tuesday that the deal that facilitates Ukrainian agricultural exports had been extended on the previous conditions. 3:40 a.m.: ⚡General Staff: Ukraine repels more than 100 Russian attacks over past 24 hours.Russian forces are concentrating efforts on conducting offensives toward Lyman, Bakhmut, Avdiivka, Mariinka, and Shakhtarsk in Donetsk Oblast, the General Staff of Ukraine's Armed Forces said. 3 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 14 March 2023Find out more about Defence Intelligence's use of language: https://t.co/Z5SI6SOzPY🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/1vOoyWCYYD 2:20 a.m.: Moscow has not been informed about the progress of an investigation into last year's Nord Stream pipeline blasts and has handed in a report to prove this to the United Nations, a senior diplomat said on Tuesday according to Reuters. Russia has prepared an "official document" based on its correspondence with Denmark, Sweden and Germany and has given copies of it to the U.N. Security Council and the U.N. General Assembly, said Dmitry Polyanskiy, Russia's deputy U.N. ambassador. "The documents allow our colleagues at the U.N. to verify that the allegations that these countries have informed us of the progress of their investigations are not true," Polyanskiy said on the Telegram messaging platform. The Sept. 26 explosions on the pipelines connecting Russia and Germany occurred in the exclusive economic zones of Sweden and Denmark. Denmark, Germany and Sweden told the Security Council in a joint letter in February that the "Russian authorities have been informed regarding the ongoing investigations" by their national authorities. 1:30 a.m.: The European Commission is set to propose a revamp of Europe's electricity market rules on Tuesday, aimed at expanding the use of fixed-price power contracts to shield consumers from severe price spikes like those experienced last year. The European Union vowed to overhaul its electricity market after cuts to Russian gas after its invasion of Ukraine last year sent European power prices soaring to record highs, forcing industries to close and hiking households' bills. Draft versions of the EU proposal, seen by Reuters, outline measures designed to make consumers less exposed to short-term swings in fossil fuel prices — by nudging countries to use more contracts that lock in stable, long-term electricity prices. Reuters had the full report. 12:45 a.m.: Agence France-Presse reported that Ukrainian Lesia Tsurenko said Monday her abrupt withdrawal from the Indian Wells hard court tournament was due to a panic attack shortly before she was to take on Australian Open champion Aryna Sabalenka of Belarus. Tsurenko told the Big Tennis of Ukraine portal that the overwhelming emotions came days after she was "shocked" by a conversation with WTA chief executive Steve Simon in which they discussed ongoing tensions in the game as a result of the Russian invasion of her country. "The reason for the refusal was a panic attack," Tsurenko said of her failure to take the court for her third-round match. "Officially, it will be written as "personal reasons," but in fact it was breathing problems and, one might say, hysteria." 12:01 a.m.: NEW: A member of the #Kremlin-affiliated Valdai Discussion Club accused #Wagner Group financier Yevgeny #Prigozhin of pursuing political objectives in #Russia that are endangering Wagner forces in #Bakhmut. w/ @criticalthreats: https://t.co/UyTPpbt6wd pic.twitter.com/cnamXAXmjH  Some information in this report came from Agence France-Presse and Reuters.