For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST. 6 a.m.: Condolence messages following a helicopter crash Wednesday that claimed the lives of at least 18 people poured in on social media. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called the crash a “terrible tragedy.” He said the exact number of casualties was still being determined, but that at the time of his post the dead included at least three children. “The pain is unspeakable,” Zelenskyy said. He added that Interior Minister Denys Monastyrskyi and Deputy Interior Minister Yevhen Yenin, both killed during the crash, were “true Ukrainian patriots.” U.N. Resident Coordinator for Ukraine Denise Brown said she was "deeply saddened by the tragic deaths.” "I extend, on behalf of the United Nations, my deepest sympathy and condolences to their families, to the Government and to the people of Ukraine," the head of the @UN in Ukraine, Denise Brown, on the terrible tragedy that occurred in Brovary today: https://t.co/o4HMSlVNYE pic.twitter.com/ijQD1REbed  While the European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said, “we stand with the Ukrainian people in this moment of grief and wish those injured a swift recovery.” The helicopter crash in #Brovary is a terrible tragedy, claiming many lives, including children and Minister Monastyrskyi, his deputy Yenin, State Secretary Lubkovich.We stand with the Ukrainian people in this moment of grief and wish those injured a swift recovery.  Officials said the crash happened near a kindergarten in Brovary, a suburb east of Kyiv. It was not immediately clear what caused the helicopter to go down. Zelenskyy said in a Telegram post he had directed authorities to investigate the circumstances surrounding the crash. 5:45 a.m.: Russian police have detained four people at an improvised memorial for at least 45 people who were killed by a Russian strike on a residential building in Ukraine's Dnipro, a rights group said Wednesday, Agence France-Presse reported. AFP journalists earlier this week saw a handful of people laying flowers and children's toys at a statue of Ukrainian poetess Lesya Ukrainka in the Russian capital. They also placed a photograph of the hollowed-out building in Dnipro, struck at the weekend. The OVD-Info rights group, which monitors arrests in Russia, said two people were detained as they lay flowers at the statue. "Two others who were nearby were also detained," the group said. It said it did not know their names, saying only that one of them was a woman who came with her dog. Ukraine has said 20 more people are missing in Dnipro following the weekend strike that ripped open the side of residential building in the central Ukraine city. Russia has introduced strict laws that effectively ban criticism of its offensive in Ukraine. The Kremlin has denied striking residential areas in Ukraine. 5:20 a.m.: Ukraine's prime minister on Wednesday said the death of Interior Minister Denys Monastyrskyi and two other senior officials in a helicopter crash near Kyiv was a "great loss" for the war-battered country, according to Agence France-Presse. "A great loss for the government team and the entire state. My sincere condolences to the families of all the victims. I instructed (officials) to immediately create a special group for a detailed investigation of all the circumstances of the tragedy," Prime Minister Denys Shmygal said on Telegram. 5 a.m.: The helicopter that Ukraine's interior minister was travelling on Wednesday when it crashed near a kindergarten outside Kyiv was flying towards frontline regions in eastern Ukraine, Agence France-Presse reported the presidency as saying. "The purpose of the helicopter flight was to carry out work in one of the hotspots of our country where hostilities are ongoing. The interior minister was heading there," the deputy head of the Ukrainian presidential office, Kyrylo Tymoshenko, said on local television. 4:45 a.m.: The European Union's chairman on Wednesday spoke in favor of the West providing tanks to Ukraine to help it face off against Russia's invasion. "For nearly one year, Russia has pursued a strategy of destruction, a strategy of terror, trying to bomb the Ukrainian people into submission," said European Council President Charles Michel. "But Ukrainians are resisting." "We, the EU, will continue to support them for as long as it takes. The time is now, they urgently need more equipment, and I am personally in favor of supplying tanks to Ukraine." 4:15 a.m.: Reuters updated the number of casualties as a result of a helicopter crash Wednesday morning to 18 people including three children, citing Ukrainian officials. The Associated Press also reported that the death toll has reached at least 18. The helicopter came down close to the nursery and a residential building in Brovary to the northeast of the capital, local officials said. The regional governor said 29 people were also hurt, including 15 children. The national police chief said that Interior Minister Denys Monastyrskyi, who was appointed under President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in 2021, was killed. His first deputy, Yevheniy Yenin, and the ministry's state secretary also died, he said. "Unfortunately, this happened with a state emergency service helicopter which was fulfilling its task," Air force spokesperson Yuriy Ihnat told Apostrof TV. 4 a.m.: President Tayyip Erdogan is aiming to extend his 20-year rule in elections that will decide, among other things, what role the country may play to ease conflict in Ukraine and the Middle East. In this analysis on the upcoming presidential and parliamentary elections, which must be held by June, Reuters explores how the political process marks the biggest political challenge yet for Erdogan, who has domestically championed religious piety, military-backed diplomacy, and low interest rates. Should he lose, his opponents promise radical change. In his foreign policy decisions, Erdogan's purchase of Russian air defenses triggered U.S. arms industry sanctions against Ankara, while his closeness to President Vladimir Putin led critics to question Turkey's commitment to the NATO Western defense alliance. Ankara's objections to NATO membership applications from Sweden and Finland have also raised tensions. However, Turkey also brokered a deal for Ukrainian wheat exports, underlining the potential role Erdogan has staked in efforts to end the Ukraine war. It is not clear that a successor would enjoy the same profile he has created on the world stage — a point he is likely to stress in the election campaign. 3:25 a.m.: Sixteen people including Ukraine's interior minister and other senior ministry officials were killed in the crash, the national police chief said, according to Reuters. Two children were among the dead and 10 of them were in hospital, officials said. 3 a.m.: According to Reuters, a police spokesperson told the Suspilne public broadcaster that at least five people were hurt and that there were also a number of dead. Reuters could not immediately reach her for comment by phone. Videos shared on social media showed a burning building and people could be heard screaming. Reuters was unable immediately to verify the footage. It was not immediately clear what caused the helicopter to crash. There was no immediate comment from Russia, and Ukrainian officials made no reference to any Russian attack in the area at the time. 2:40 a.m.: Reuters reported that a local governor has confirmed that a helicopter crashed near a nursery and a residential building in the town of Brovary outside the Ukrainian capital Kyiv on Wednesday, and that there were casualties. "At the time of the tragedy, children and staff of the institution were in the kindergarten. Everyone has now been evacuated," Kyiv region governor Oleksiy Kuleba wrote on the Telegram messaging app. 2:25 a.m.: An aircraft crashed into a building in the Ukrainian town of Brovary near Kyiv on Wednesday, and emergency services rushed to the scene, Reuters cited a presidential aide as saying. He said checks were being made on casualties. Videos shared on social media showed a burning building and said an object resembling a helicopter or drone had crashed into a nursery building. Reuters was unable immediately to verify the reports. "We are finding out information about casualties and the circumstances," the deputy head of Ukraine's presidential office, Kyrylo Tymoshenko, wrote on the Telegram messaging app. 2 a.m.: Reuters reported Russia's Gazprom said it will ship 32.6 million cubic meters of gas to Europe via Ukraine on Wednesday, a volume in line with recent days, but around 20% lower than daily shipments recorded in the final months of last year. 1:45 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 18 January 2023 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/fR17j1ajCd🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/0qGka78nEd  1:30 a.m.: Chemicals giant BASF unveiled a 7.3 billion euro ($7.9 billion) non-cash impairment on Wintershall Dea, after the oil and gas exploration joint venture decided to exit Russia following its invasion of Ukraine, Reuters reported. "Wintershall Dea will end its Russian activities. Continuing to operate in Russia is not tenable," Wintershall Dea Chief Executive Mario Mehren said. A 72.7%-27.3% joint venture between BASF and Russian billionaire Mikhail Fridman's investment firm LetterOne, Wintershall Dea is one of Germany's companies most exposed to Russia and had up until now stopped short of pulling out. "Russia's war of aggression in Ukraine is incompatible with our values and has destroyed cooperation between Russia and Europe," Mehren said in a statement late on Tuesday. BASF's Frankfurt-listed shares were down 3.7% following the news. A local trader said that investors may now fear a "harsh dividend cut." Mehren said limitations the Russian government imposed on local assets owned by Western companies had made it impossible to operate properly "and resulted in an economic expropriation of the joint ventures in Russia." Wintershall Dea's Russian activities include a 35% stake in the Yuzhno-Russkoye gas field, which Gazprom (40%) and Austria's OMV (25%) co-own. Wintershall Dea also co-owns two Achimov natural gas production projects in Siberia, including Achimgaz — a 50-50 joint venture with Gazprom — and the 25-75 Achim Development venture. Wintershall Dea said its exit from Russia would be in line with local laws and regulation. It also expects a 5.3 billion euro non-cash loss from the deconsolidation of its Russian joint venture and impairments on Russian-related activities, including its 15.5% stake in the damaged Gazprom-led Nord Stream pipeline and the WIGA Transport joint venture with Sefe, formerly known as Gazprom Germania. As a result, BASF, which said the Nord Stream stake had been fully written down, flagged a 1.38 billion euro net loss for 2022, according to preliminary results also published on Tuesday, compared with a 5.52 billion profit in 2021. According to the Vara consensus of estimates the company provided, analysts had on average expected net profit of 4.77 billion euros. BASF's earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) likely declined by 15% in 2022 to 6.55 billion euros, also below the 6.84 billion analyst forecast. Sales for the past year were up 11% at 87.32 billion euros, BASF, which is scheduled to release its annual 2022 results on February 24, citing higher prices and currency effects. 1:05 a.m.: Two weeks on from the New Year’s Eve missile strike on military barracks at Makiivka, the true death toll remains secret. The slaughter has made many ordinary Russians reconsider the cost of fighting in Ukraine https://t.co/zPZoBV7ASQ  12:30 a.m.: The training of Ukrainian officers to operate the Patriot advanced long-range air defense system will last 10 weeks, Reuters reported citing Ukraine's Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov. The United States, Germany and the Netherlands have pledged to send Patriot missile systems to Ukraine to repel a barrage of Russian missile and drone attacks. "There is a decision that our officers will be trained in 10 weeks. Such obligations were undertaken by the American partners," Reznikov said, in remarks published Tuesday on Ukraine's state Military Media Center Telegram messaging app. 12:01 a.m.: Ukraine has taken a step closer to winning approval for German-made modern battle tanks to confront invading Russian forces and has secured a pledge of more Patriot defense missiles as its allies appear ready to rally for the next phase of the war. Ukraine has relied primarily on Soviet-era T-72 tank variants, Reuters reported. Germany's Leopard 2 tank, operated by armies in about 20 countries, is regarded as one of the West's best. The tank weighs more than 60 tons, has a 120-millimeter smoothbore gun and can hit targets at a distance of up to five kilometers. Ukraine says the tanks would give its troops the mobile firepower to drive Russian troops out in decisive battles. Germany has been the West's biggest holdout on pledging tanks, but a cabinet minister said on Tuesday the issue would be the first to be decided by new defense minister Boris Pistorius. He will host U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin on Thursday ahead of a meeting on Friday of dozens of defense ministers at Ramstein air base in Germany. Western countries have provided a steady supply of weapons to Ukraine since Russia invaded last February 24 in what it calls a "special military operation" to protect its security because its neighbor grew increasingly close to the West. Ukraine and its allies accuse Moscow of an unprovoked war to grab territory and to erase the independence of a fellow ex-Soviet republic. Some information in this report came from Reuters, The Associated Press and Agence France-Presse.