For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST. 9:20 a.m.: “When I go to work, I understand that I may not return,” says Mykhailo, a power station worker. The plant where he works has been hit by missiles ten times since October when Russia launched its campaign to try to destroy Ukraine’s energy infrastructure.https://t.co/Y6k1oRjXg1 8:45 a.m.: Russia said on Wednesday that the European Union was becoming a vassal of NATO, citing the signing of a joint declaration in which the two organizations pledged to deepen their cooperation in response to Russia's war in Ukraine, Reuters reported.

In the declaration on Tuesday, NATO and the EU stated: "Today, we are faced with the gravest threat to Euro-Atlantic security in decades. Russia’s brutal war on Ukraine violates international law and the principles of the U.N. Charter." They pledged to "take our partnership to the next level" in response to the growing threats and challenges.

Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said the move "confirms the complete subordination of the European Union to the tasks of the North Atlantic bloc, which is an instrument to guarantee U.S. interests by force." She said the Europeans faced "the unenviable fate of an American vassal, losing their positions in world politics and economics, falling into increasing dependence on Washington with every step."

The statement was in line with Moscow's efforts to cast the war in Ukraine as part of an existential struggle with Western nations it says are bent on Russia's destruction. The United States has denied Moscow's claims that it wants to destroy Russia.

8:20 a.m.: ⚡️Stoltenberg: NATO should step up support for Ukraine amid battle of Soledar.“This shows once again the bravery of Ukrainian forces... It also shows how vital it is that we step up our military support to Ukraine,” NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said. 8:00 a.m.: NATO and the EU are launching a task force to boost protection of critical infrastructure in response to last year's attack on the Nord Stream gas pipelines and Russia's "weaponizing of energy," the organizations' leaders said on Wednesday.

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said the sabotage of the Russia-to-Germany pipelines in the Baltic Sea last September showed the need "to confront this new type of threat."

"This is a task force where our experts from NATO and the European Union will work hand-in-hand to identify key threats to our critical infrastructure, to look at the strategic vulnerabilities that we do have," she said in Brussels, speaking alongside NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg.

Western and Russian officials have traded accusations over the Nord Stream blasts, but officials in Sweden and Denmark investigating the attack have not named any possible culprits. Good to have @JensStoltenberg with us at our @EU_Commission seminar.With the joint declaration we signed yesterday, we are taking our partnership to the next level.And today, we are already stepping up work to strengthen our resilience and defence. https://t.co/FZONGrOkpb 7:50 a.m.: Estonia has told Russia to reduce the number of diplomats at its embassy in Tallinn by February, the Baltic country's foreign ministry said on Wednesday, according to Reuters.

It said in a statement Russia should lower the number of diplomats to eight, which equals the number of Estonian diplomats in Moscow, Reuters reported.

The Russian embassy in Tallinn on its website lists 17 diplomats.

Since the Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Estonia has already expelled three diplomats.

"In light of the fact that during the war of aggression, the staff of the Russian embassy is not engaged in advancing Estonian-Russian relations, it is our view that there are no grounds for the current size of the Russian embassy," the ministry said on Wednesday. 7:40 a.m.: It said Russian aircraft in Belarus "are mostly involved in training" and the new helicopters were "unlikely to constitute a credible offensive force."https://t.co/qIt3Cn76ls 7:15 a.m.: Ukraine must "be ready" at its border with Russian ally Belarus even though it sees only "powerful statements" coming from its neighbor, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said on Wednesday. Reuters reported that Zelenskyy made his comments after visiting the Lviv region, where he discussed border protection and the security situation in northwestern Ukraine. Kyiv has warned that Russia may try to use Belarus to launch a new ground invasion of Ukraine from the north. Zelenskyy made no reference to such warnings in comments on the Telegram messaging app after taking part in what he described as a coordination meeting on security matters in the Lviv region. "We discussed state border protection, the operational situation on the border with the Republic of Belarus, and counter-subversive measures in these territories," he said. "We understand that apart from powerful statements, we do not see anything powerful there, but nevertheless we must be ready both at the border and in the regions." 6:45 a.m.: In 2019, RFE/RL's Amos Chapple visited Soledar as the salt-mining operation was hoping to crack Western markets after Russia blocked its imports.https://t.co/I6AekrYfUq 6:30 a.m.: The fate of Soledar, a devastated salt-mining town in eastern Ukraine, hung in the balance Wednesday as Ukraine said its forces were holding out against a furious Russian onslaught in what has become one of the fiercest and most costly battles in the almost 11-month war, The Associated Press reported. Though unlikely to provide a turning point in the war, Soledar’s fall to Russian forces after months of Ukrainian defense would be a prize for the Kremlin. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Wednesday that Russian forces had “positive dynamics in advancing” in Soledar, but he stopped short of declaring its capture when asked about the claims that it has come under Russian control. “Let’s not rush and wait for official statements,” he said. Soledar, known for salt mining and processing, lies in the Donetsk region and has little intrinsic value. But it lies at a strategic point 10 kilometers (6 miles) north of Bakhmut, which Russian forces are aiming to surround. Taking Bakhmut would disrupt Ukraine’s supply lines and open a route for Russian forces to press toward Kramatorsk and Sloviansk, key Ukrainian strongholds in Donetsk. Soledar’s fall would make “holding Bakhmut much more precarious for Ukraine,” Michael Kofman, the director of Russia Studies at the CAN nonprofit research organization in Arlington, Virginia, noted Wednesday. The costly war of attrition, with expected heavy casualties, may make Russia’s victory as costly as a defeat, however. 6:15 a.m.: I addressed the participants of the 80th @goldenglobes Awards. This award was born at a special time. WWII was not over yet, but the tide was turned – all knew who would win.It is now 2023. The war in 🇺🇦 is not over yet but the tide is turning & it is already clear who will win. pic.twitter.com/u7pHr0u0lq 6 a.m.: Russia's human rights commissioner said on Wednesday that "important words about the need for a ceasefire" had been said during a meeting with her Turkish and Ukrainian colleagues in Ankara, Russian state-owned news agency RIA reported. Reuters reported that Tatiana Moskalkova said that a ceasefire was necessary to stop human rights violations, and that she had also asked Turkey to stop supplying arms to Ukraine. 5:30 a.m.: Belarus's defense ministry said on Wednesday that joint Russian-Belarusian air defense forces had been reinforced, with new missile units moved into position, according to Reuters. "Anti-aircraft missile units advanced to designated areas and took up combat duty," the ministry said in a brief statement. Belarus is a close ally of Russia and allowed President Vladimir Putin to use its territory as one of the launchpads for his Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine. The two countries plan to hold joint aviation drills in the second half of January, beginning next Monday. Ukraine has repeatedly warned that Putin may try to use Belarus to launch a new invasion of Ukraine from the north, a step that would open a major new front in the war. 5:05 a.m.: Reuters reported that Ukraine's military denied on Wednesday that Russian forces had taken control of the eastern town of Soledar, and said the intensity of battles in the area could be compared to fighting in World War Two. Serhiy Cherevatyi, spokesperson for the eastern military command, told Ukrainian television that Ukrainian forces had not allowed Russian forces to break through front lines. "The town is not under the control of the Russian Federation. There are fierce battles going on now," he said. "There is a complicated situation there." He said the military command was "working now on how to stabilize the situation with the maximum impact for the enemy and minimum losses for Ukraine." Russian mercenary group Wagner has said it has taken control of Soledar, a salt-mining town near the city of Bakhmut where fighting has also been fierce as Russia tries to capture the entire Donbas region of eastern Ukraine. "The intensity of battles near Bakhmut can be compared with World War Two," Cherevatyi said. Reuters was unable to independently verify the situation on the ground in Soledar. Cherevatyi said Russian forces still had a lot of Soviet-era weapons and were using Soviet-era armored vehicles with some modernized elements. "Our partners are providing us with more modern weapons," he said, adding that Western weapons were more precise and gave Ukraine an advantage. 4:40 a.m.: Reuters reported that Russian Human Rights Commissioner Tatiana Moskalkova said on Wednesday that Ukraine and Russia had agreed on an exchange of 40 prisoners of war after meeting her Ukrainian counterpart Dmytro Lubinets. 4:25 a.m.: Ukraine's human rights ombudsman Dmytro Lubinets commented on the Wednesday meeting he held in Turkey with Russian counterpart Tatyana Moskalkova, Agence France-Presse reported. They "discussed a wide range of humanitarian problems and issues related to the provision of human rights assistance to citizens of the two countries," Lubinets said on Facebook, while Moskalkova said in a separate statement that they discussed "humanitarian aid to citizens of both countries". Reuters reported that they were later expected to visit the Turkish presidential palace, where President Tayyip Erdogan is scheduled to make a speech for the conference at 1130 GMT. A Turkish source said Moskalkova and Lubinets were expected to possibly discuss a humanitarian corridor and the situation of children who fled the war. Issues such as the Black Sea grains corridor or a potential prisoner swap would be discussed at higher levels, the source said. Russia and Ukraine have conducted numerous prisoner swaps — most recently on Sunday — in the course of the war, which is now in its 11th month. 3:40 a.m.: Agence France-Presse reported that Kyiv denied Wednesday that forces from Russian mercenary group Wagner had taken the important gateway town of Soledar in east Ukraine, whose capture would pave the way for further gains in Donbas. "Soledar was, is and will be Ukrainian," the strategic communications branch of the Ukrainian military said in a statement, saying pictures released by the Wagner fighting group that Russian media said were taken in Soledar had been taken elsewhere. 3 a.m.: The fate of the Ukrainian city of Soledar was unclear on Wednesday, with Russian mercenary group Wagner claiming control of it while also saying "urban battles" were still being fought, Agence France-Presse reported. Both sides have said the battle for Soledar, known for its salt mines, has been intense and bloody. Its fall would mark a significant victory for Moscow's forces. Soledar, in the Donetsk region, lies 15 kilometers (nine miles) from the city of Bakhmut, which Russia has been trying to seize for months. Yevgeny Prigozhin, the head of Russia's controversial mercenary Wagner group, claimed in the early hours of Wednesday that his fighters seized control of the town. "Wagner units have taken control of the whole territory of Soledar," Prigozhin alleged on social media. But the Kremlin-linked businessman added that "urban battles are being fought in the city center". He also said "the number of captives" will be announced Wednesday. He posted a photograph of himself in military attire, surrounded by Wagner fighters, without saying where it was. Russian state news agency RIA Novosti published another photograph of Prigozhin with armed fighters, saying it was taken in the salt mines of Soledar. Prigozhin has said Soledar had been stormed "exclusively" by Wagner units. The Russian army has not yet commented. Ukraine said this week its fighters were holding out against intense assaults on the city. "Even after suffering colossal losses, Russia is still maniacally trying to seize Soledar," Kyiv's defense ministry said late on Tuesday. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said there was a "difficult situation" in the Donetsk region in his daily night address on Tuesday. He praised the "bravery" of Ukrainian soldiers defending Soledar. Earlier this week he said Soledar had been flattened by fighting: "Everything is completely destroyed." The UK said Tuesday that Moscow's forces were "likely in control" of Soledar. 2:42 a.m.: "Ukraine losing the war [against Russia] is simply not an option," says @TimmermansEU, speaking to DW about aid to Kyiv and the possibility of Ukraine joining the EU. pic.twitter.com/vAvMPU70eV 2:05 a.m.: Reuters reported that Russia's Gazprom said that it would ship 35.5 million cubic meters of gas to Europe via Ukraine on Wednesday, a volume broadly in line with recent days. 1:30 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 11 January 2023 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/bqbfvEyU7N🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/zTPdQ7rQX7 1:15 a.m.: Russian forces have not captured the entirety of #Soledar despite false Russian claims that the city has fallen and that #Bakhmut risks imminent encirclement. Russian sources claimed that Wagner Group forces advanced into the west of Soledar on January 10. https://t.co/BBSRXNzP1o https://t.co/sAcXhl2qj8 pic.twitter.com/NcpWrBNagA 12:55 a.m.: Russian Human Rights Commissioner Tatiana Moskalkova said on Wednesday that she discussed humanitarian assistance with her Ukrainian counterpart Dmytro Lubinets, Reuters reported, citing Moskalkova’s post on the Telegram messaging app. "We discussed issues of providing humanitarian assistance to citizens of the two countries," Moskalkova said Telegram. Lubinets said before the meeting in Turkey that the main issue for the talks was to be "the return of our heroes and heroines," a reference to prisoner exchanges. 12:25 a.m.: Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Tuesday said his government would purchase a U.S. air defense system to donate to Ukraine, Agence France-Press reported. The U.S.-built air defense system is worth $302 million, Defense Minister Anita Anand said. The announcement was made after a bilateral meeting between Trudeau and U.S. President Joe Biden in Mexico City. Canada is offering the National Advanced Surface-to-Air Missile System (NASAMS) to Ukraine to counter Russia's massive bombardment of its critical infrastructure, Anand said. "Canada will continue to stand with the Ukrainian people as they fight against Russia's illegal and unjustifiable invasion," Anand tweeted. Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy responded that Canada had "vividly proven" its support. "Thank you for helping us to protect our sky. NASAMS procured for us by Canada will be a strong shield for our cities and citizens," Zelenskyy tweeted. 12:01 a.m.: The United States will gather its allies in Germany next week for a new round of talks on backing Ukraine militarily, Agence France-Presse reported Tuesday, citing the U.S. airbase in Ramstein. U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin will host an in-person meeting of the Ukraine Defense Contact Group meeting at Ramstein on January 20, the base said in a statement. The Ukraine Defense Contact Group includes some 50 countries supporting Ukraine's war effort against Russia. NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg said earlier that Kyiv's Western backers would meet next week with Ukraine's defense minister "to discuss exactly what types of weapons are needed and how can allies provide those weapons." Some information in this report came from Agence France-Presse and Reuters.