For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST. 6:15 a.m.: Even as Ukraine and the European Union plan for a summit in February, the ongoing costs of the war are taking their toll on Europeans throughout the continent. “Germans are squirreling away candles, Finns who own electric cars are asked not to heat them before climbing inside,” VOA’s Lisa Bryant reported. Bryant examines the sacrifices many are making and possible divisions the crisis has sparked. As winter and hard times roll in, some analysts say European unity may show cracks. 6 a.m.: A warmer-than-expected start to winter across large parts of the world is rapidly easing fears of a natural gas crisis that had been predicted to trigger outages and add to pressure on power bills https://t.co/vwQwbnO8gl 5:30 a.m.: The illegal and unprovoked invasion of Ukraine is continuing. The map below is the latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 03 January 2023.Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/RLP8BW8qmK🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/XkfAmgiuA4 5:10 a.m.: Russian nationalists and some lawmakers have demanded punishment for commanders they accused of ignoring dangers as anger grew over the killing of dozens of Russian soldiers in one of the Ukraine war's deadliest strikes, Reuters reported. In a rare disclosure, Russia's defense ministry said 63 soldiers were killed on New Year's Eve in a fiery blast that destroyed a temporary barracks in a vocational college in Makiivka, twin city of the Russian-occupied regional capital of Donetsk in eastern Ukraine. Ukraine and some Russian nationalist bloggers have put the death toll much higher, in the hundreds, though pro-Russian officials say such estimates are exaggerated. Russian critics said the soldiers were being housed alongside an ammunition dump at the site, which the Russian defense ministry said was hit by four rockets fired from U.S.-made HIMARS launchers. The strike on Makiivka came as Russia was launching what have become nightly waves of drone attacks on Kyiv and other Ukrainian cities. Ukrainian officials said Russia had on Monday struck Ukraine-controlled parts of the Donetsk region, hitting the village of Yakovlivka, the city of Kramatorsk and destroying an ice rink in the town of Druzhkivka. 4:40 a.m.: During the first two days of the new year, which were marked by relentless nighttime drone attacks on Ukrainian cities and energy infrastructure, the country's forces shot down more than 80 Iranian-made drones. Many believe there will be more to come. Russia is preparing to step up its attacks on Ukraine using more of these Iranian-made exploding drones, The Associated Press cited Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy as saying in their new report, focusing on a potential tactical shift 11 months into the conflict. 4:04 a.m.: Russia launched attacks on Ukrainian oblasts in the east, south, and north, using missiles, artillery, mortars, and tanks, according to local authorities.https://t.co/jlfDbuEcrx 3:38 a.m.: Some have fought Russian troops. Others have volunteered to support the resistance effort. All are dealing with how the war has altered their lives. https://t.co/AtcRs7dQEu 3:02 a.m.: An enduring global food crisis has become one of the farthest-reaching consequences of Russia’s war on Ukraine, contributing to widespread starvation, poverty and premature deaths. https://t.co/1iN2HptgqP 2:32 a.m.: Reuters reported that Russia's Gazprom said it would ship 42.2 million cubic meters (mcm) of gas to Europe via Ukraine on Tuesday, a similar volume to that reported in recent days. 2:05 a.m.: NATO countries will discuss their defense spending targets in the coming months as some of them call for turning a 2% target into a minimum figure, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg told the German news agency DPA, Reuters reported. "Some allies are strongly in favor of turning the current 2% target into a minimum," DPA quoted Stoltenberg as saying in an interview published on Tuesday. Stoltenberg said that he would head the negotiations. "We will meet, we will have ministerial meetings, we will have talks in capitals," he said. He did not say which NATO countries were calling for a more ambitious target, according to DPA. The NATO chief said he aimed to reach an agreement no later than NATO's next regular summit, which will be in Lithuania's capital, Vilnius, on July 11-12. 1:30 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 03 January 2023 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/dFqO3TLWgZ🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/1kwYmKRUlw 1 a.m.: After it was liberated by Ukrainian soldiers in September, the discovery of a mass burial site and the corpses of torture victims made Izyum a byword for the alleged atrocities committed under Russian occupation. Agence France-Presse interviewed one Izyum resident who opened up his cellar to friends and neighbors to shelter in during the Russian occupation. At one point, the 70-square-meter space housed over 60 people – including a months-old baby. 12:30 a.m.: NEW: A devastating Ukrainian #HIMARS strike on a Russian base in #Makiivka, #Donetsk Oblast, on December 31 has generated significant criticism of Russian military leadership in the Russian information space. Latest on #Ukraine w/ @criticalthreats: https://t.co/ou4m9DyAAq pic.twitter.com/8Q7wXA44cp 12:02 a.m.: Japan's "anti-Russian course" makes peace treaty talks impossible, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Andrei Rudenko said in comments published by the state TASS news agency on Tuesday, Reuters reported. Russia and Japan have not formally ended World War Two hostilities because of their standoff over islands, seized by the Soviet Union at the end of the war, just off Japan's northernmost island of Hokkaido. The islands are known in Russia as the Kurils and in Japan as the Northern Territories. "It is absolutely obvious that it is impossible to discuss the signing of such a document (a peace treaty) with a state that takes openly unfriendly positions and allows itself direct threats against our country," Rudenko told TASS in an interview. "We are not seeing signs of Tokyo moving away from the anti-Russian course and any attempt to rectify the situation." Russia withdrew from its talks with Japan in March last year, following Japanese sanctions over Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Japan reacted angrily to the talks, calling Moscow's move "unfair" and "completely unacceptable." Separately, Rudenko also said that Russia supports Beijing's "One China" policy on the issue of Taiwan, reiterating Moscow's explicit backing of China over the fate of the island where the defeated Republic of China government fled in 1949. "Beijing is well aware that the Russian side invariably supports the People's' Republic of China on the Taiwan issue," Rudenko said. "We proceed from the fact that there is only one China, the PRC government is the only legitimate government representing all of China, and Taiwan is an integral part of it." China claims democratically governed Taiwan as its own territory and has ramped up military and political pressure against the island over the past two years. Taipei strongly rejects Beijing's sovereignty claims. Some information in this report came from Reuters, The Associated Press and Agence France-Presse.