For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST. 4:55 a.m.: Reuters reported that Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovych tendered his resignation on Tuesday after a public outcry over comments he made suggesting a Russian missile that killed at least 41 people in the city of Dnipro had been shot down by Ukraine. Arestovych announced his resignation on Facebook after publicly apologizing and rowing back on his comments in a post on the Telegram messaging app. The Ukrainian Air Force says the apartment complex was hit by a Russian Kh-22 missile, which Kyiv does not have the equipment to shoot down. "I offer my sincere apologies to the victims and their relatives, the residents of Dnipro and everyone who was deeply hurt by my prematurely erroneous version of the reason for the Russian missile striking a residential building," he wrote. 4:25 a.m.: Social Democrat (SPD) interior minister of the state of Lower Saxony Boris Pistorius is to serve as Germany's next defense minister, a party source told Reuters on Tuesday. German Defense Minister Christine Lambrecht resigned on Monday as her government came under rising pressure to let allies send Ukraine heavy tanks, at the start of what is likely to be a pivotal week for Western plans to further arm Kyiv. The Pioneer news portal and other local media also reported the planned appointment. 4:10 a.m.: The first item on the agenda of Germany's next defense minister will be whether to deliver main battle tanks to Ukraine, German Economy Minister Robert Habeck told Deutschlandfunk radio broadcaster on Tuesday, according to Reuters. "When the person, when the minister of defense, is declared, this is the first question to be decided concretely," he said on the sides of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. German Defense Minister Christine Lambrecht resigned on Monday as her government came under rising pressure to let allies send Ukraine heavy tanks, at the start of what is likely to be a pivotal week for Western plans to further arm Kyiv. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said on Monday that he would act fast to replace Lambrecht. The Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, citing government sources, said a successor would be announced on Tuesday. 3:30 a.m.: WATCH: This woman was pulled out from the rubble of an apartment building in Dnipro following the deadliest Russian strike in months. At least 40 people, including two children, were killed in the strike. pic.twitter.com/67w0zfO7pd 3:10 a.m.: Reuters reported Russian-installed authorities in Ukraine's eastern Donetsk region as saying on Tuesday they were in control of Soledar, repeating their earlier claim about the salt-mining town where intense fighting has taken place. "On the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic, Russian troops liberated Soledar," they said in a post on Telegram. Russia said on Friday its forces had taken control of Soledar, but Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said later that fighting for Soledar and other eastern towns and cities was continuing. 2:53 a.m.: Seven Ukrainian civilians, including a woman with reduced mobility and a 5-year-old girl, were evacuated by volunteers on January 13 from Paraskoviyivka, a village about 5 kilometers from Soledar, where fierce fighting is taking place, reports @radiosvoboda pic.twitter.com/ksx7amO3kb 2:25 a.m.: According to Reuters, Russia's Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said late on Monday that British Foreign Minister James Cleverly, who has been sanctioned by Moscow over Ukraine, is yet to answer for his support of Kyiv. Cleverly said on Monday he had been sanctioned by the Russian government and added that if that were the price for supporting Ukraine — he was happy to be sanctioned. "Dear James, you don't understand," Zakharova wrote on her Telegram messaging app. "This is for the anti-Russian course and personal sanctions. But you still have to answer for the support of the Kyiv regime and neo-Nazism." Russia framed its invasion of Ukraine as a battle against Nazism but Kyiv and its allies say this is a lie used to justify an unprovoked, imperialist land grab. Britain said on Saturday it would send 14 of its Challenger 2 main battle tanks as well as other advanced artillery support in the coming weeks in what could be the first shipment of Western-made tanks to Ukraine. 1:55 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 17 January 2023 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/cJMPkLSUgH🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/cOHXJS6j6E 1:32 a.m.: Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called on the Organization for Security and Cooperation (OSCE) on Monday to do more about Ukrainians that Kyiv says have been forcefully deported to Russia and their fate once inside the country, Reuters reported. Bujar Osmani, Minister of Foreign Affairs of North Macedonia and the 2023 OSCE Chairman-in-Office, visited Kyiv on Monday, with Zelenskiy saying the two talked about how to "make the OSCE effective." Ukraine and its allies have accused Russia of large-scale deportation of Ukrainians since the start of the Russian invasion of Ukraine in February of 2022. The U.S. State Department estimated last year that between 900,000 and 1.6 million Ukrainian citizens, including 260,000 children, have been forcibly deported into Russian territory. Russia denies deportations and says those arriving are war refugees. In November, the country's emergency ministry said that some 4.8 million Ukrainians, including 712,000 children, had arrived in Russia since February. "The OSCE can significantly increase attention and act accordingly regarding the deportation of our people from the occupied territory to Russia," Zelenskyy said in his nightly video address. "No international organization has found the strength to gain access to the places of detention of our prisoners in Russia yet. This must be corrected." Ukraine's National Information Bureau, which tracks missing and displaced children, says that as of January 16 nearly 14,000 children had been deported. The OSCE, the world's largest regional security organization of 57 states, brings on equal footing the United States, all European states, including Russia and all states of the former Soviet Union, among others. Russia has tried to undermine the organization, saying in December that the body is losing its meaning and not focusing on matters closely related to security. It has been blocking the adoption of the OSCE budget. The OSCE was also forced to close its monitoring mission in Ukraine after Moscow refused to extend the mandates of the organization's field operations in the country. 1:05 a.m.: "Our country is very clear that the participation of Serbian citizens in all conflicts in other countries is prohibited, and this entails legal consequences," he said.https://t.co/3Ex732o3TZ 12:30 a.m.: "“This café was important. This café was a place where we could talk. Here we could gather. We trusted each other.” From café culture to civilian resistance in Kherson https://t.co/yH85kMv6O4" 12:01 a.m.: According to Reuters, British Foreign Minister James Cleverly will seek to bolster support for Ukraine on a trip to the United States and Canada which begins on Tuesday, ahead of the first anniversary of the invasion by Russia. Britain has been a steadfast supporter of Kyiv since Russia's invasion last February, and at the weekend pledged to send 14 Challenger 2 tanks and other heavy weaponry to Ukraine. Germany is under pressure to send Leopard 2 tanks to Ukraine, but its government says such tanks should be supplied to Ukraine only if there is agreement among Kyiv's main allies, particularly the United States. Cleverly will tell U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Canadian counterpart Melanie Joly that it is the right time to go "further and faster" to give Ukraine military support. "Today we stand united against Putin's illegal war, and we will continue to use our uniquely strong defense and security ties to ensure that, in the end, the Ukrainian people will win," Cleverly said in a statement ahead of the trip. Some information in this report came from Reuters.