For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST. 11:15 a.m.: The U.S. State Department released a statement Thursday saying it is imposing sanctions on the Wagner Group, a private military entity involved in the war in Ukraine. "The United States is sanctioning individuals and entities linked to Russia’s para-military Wagner Group and its head, Yevgeniy Prigozhin – including its key infrastructure and associated front companies, its battlefield operations in Ukraine, producers of Russia’s weapons, and those administering Russia-occupied areas of Ukraine," the statement said. The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control is designating the Wagner Group as a significant transnational criminal organization, citing the group's "pattern of serious criminal behavior.” This action supports the goal "to degrade Moscow’s capacity to wage war against Ukraine, to promote accountability for those responsible for Russia’s war of aggression and associated abuses, and to place further pressure on Russia’s defense sector," the statement said. 10:55 a.m.: Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said on January 26 it was "meaningless" to hold a trilateral meeting with Sweden and Finland to discuss their NATO bids after anti-Turkish protests this month in Stockholm, Reuters reported. Cavusoglu also told a news conference in Ankara that there was no offer to evaluate Sweden's and Finland's NATO membership separately. Swedish Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson said his country wanted to restore NATO dialogue with Turkey after Ankara indefinitely postponed trilateral talks with Sweden and Finland over their membership. Explainer: Why is Turkey blocking Swedish and Finnish NATO membership? https://t.co/892ojn6hgv pic.twitter.com/xoV4jkNyYJ 10:40 a.m.: A former theater director In Siberia whose son condemned the war In Ukraine has been sent to house arrest, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty reported.

The former director of the Red Torch Theater in Novosibirsk, Aleksandr Kulyabin, whose son publicly condemned Moscow's invasion of Ukraine, was sent on Thursday to pretrial house arrest on embezzlement charges.

Kulyabin was detained two days earlier after his home was searched. His son, Timofei Kulyabin, worked as the chief producer at the theater in the Siberian city.

He decided not to return to Russia from the Czech Republic, where he was on a business trip weeks after Russia launched its full-scale aggression against Ukraine in February 2022. 10:10 a.m.: "Perhaps we need to go through all this torture to continue to develop as a society, otherwise we will cease to exist as a nation and state," Kateryna Priymak, deputy chair of the Ukrainian Women Veteran Movement, told RFE/RL.https://t.co/uwqqObZDbS 9:50 a.m.: Ukraine will now push for Western fourth generation fighter jets such as the U.S. F-16 after securing supplies of main battle tanks, an adviser to Ukraine's defense minister said, according to Reuters.

Ukraine won a huge boost for its troops on Wednesday as Germany and the United States announced plans to provide heavy tanks for Kyiv, ending weeks of diplomatic deadlock on the issue.

"The next big hurdle will now be the fighter jets," Yuriy Sak, who advises Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov, told Reuters by phone.

Ukraine's Air Force has a fleet of ageing Soviet-era fighter jets that came off the assembly line before Kyiv even declared independence more than 31 years ago. The warplanes are used for intercept missions and to attack Russian positions.

"If we get them (Western fighter jets), the advantages on the battlefield will be just immense... It's not just F-16s (U.S. multirole fighter jets): fourth generation aircraft, this is what we want."

9:30 a.m.: Russian and Belarusian athletes will be allowed to participate in this year's Asian Games despite Russia's war in Ukraine, the Olympic Council of Asia said on Thursday, according to Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty.

"All athletes, regardless of their nationality or the passport they hold, should be able to compete in sports competitions," the OCA said in a statement.

The International Olympic Committee had said on Wednesday that the presence of Russians at next year's Paris Olympics should be "further explored" despite calls from Ukraine for them to be excluded. 9:15 a.m.: Four people were kicked out of the Australian Open after displaying Russian flags — which have been banned from Melbourne Park — and threatening security guards, police and Tennis Australia said Thursday. https://t.co/ymHYq0qs8Y 9:00 a.m.: Germany apologized on Thursday for using a leopard emoji in a jibe at Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov on Twitter that ended up offending some Africans, The Associated Press reported.

The German foreign ministry poked fun at Russia’s top diplomat during his tour of Africa when it tweeted that he wasn’t there looking for leopards, but using the trip to try and justify Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine.

The tweet, and the leopard emoji the foreign ministry used on its official account, played off Germany’s decision to send some of its advanced Leopard 2 tanks to Ukraine to help its military fight off Russian forces.

But an African Union official took offense at what she said was the continent being portrayed as only about wild animals. Ebba Kalondo, the spokeswoman for AU Chairman Moussa Faki Mahamat, tweeted back to the German government account questioning if Africa, its people and its wildlife was “just a joke to you?”

“Foreign policy is not a joke nor should it be used to score cheap geopolitical points by illustrating an entire Continent with colonial tropes,” Kalondo wrote in a follow-up tweet. The German foreign ministry apologized and said that the tweet wasn’t meant to offend, but rather “to call out the lies that Russia uses to justify its imperialist war of aggression against Ukraine.”

8:25 a.m.: An expanding cemetery in southern Russia began to fill with scores of newly dug graves of fighters killed in Ukraine. Many of the fighters were convicts recruited by Wagner Group after its founder promised a pardon if prisoners survived six months. For months, Wagner has been locked in a bloody battle of attrition in Ukraine’s eastern Donetsk. Western and Ukrainian officials have said the group is using convicts as cannon fodder to overwhelm Ukraine’s defenses https://t.co/wyABpauu1J pic.twitter.com/vXageF5NIK 8:10 a.m.: South Korea, with a world-class arms industry, is facing mounting pressure to find a way to get needed arms and munitions to Ukraine without unduly angering Russia, which has hinted that it could resume military cooperation with North Korea, VOA’s Christy Lee reported.

Experts interviewed by VOA say the most likely solution under consideration in Seoul is for the nation’s commercial arms manufacturers to make private sales to the United States, allowing the U.S to ship more of its own armaments to Ukraine without depleting its stockpiles.

A spokesperson for the South Korean Ministry of Foreign Affairs told VOA Korean Service on Wednesday that the administration in Seoul “has been providing humanitarian support to the people of Ukraine” but “there has not been a change” in its position that it “will not send lethal weapons to Ukraine.” 7:45 a.m.: German Defense Minister Boris Pistorius said Ukrainian crews will start their training in Germany in coming days on German-made Marders, which are infantry fighting vehicles, while training on the heavier Leopard 2 tanks would start “a little later,” according to The Associated Press.

“In any case, the aim with the Leopards is to have the first company in Ukraine by the end of March, beginning of April,” he added. “I can’t say the precise day.”

In an interview with Britain’s Sky News on Wednesday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he didn’t know when the tanks from the U.S. and Europe would arrive.

NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg, also speaking to the British network, declined to speculate on the timing, but said “allies are extremely focused on the importance of speed.”

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the move to provide Ukraine with modern Western tanks reflected the West’s growing involvement in the conflict. “Both European capitals and Washington keep saying that the delivery of various kinds of weapons systems, including tanks, to Ukraine, absolutely does not mean the involvement of these countries or the alliance in the hostilities ongoing in Ukraine,” Peskov told reporters. “We categorically disagree with that.”

“Moscow views everything the alliance and the capitals I have mentioned as direct involvement in the conflict,” he added. “We can see it growing.”

7:30 a.m.: When Russia unleashed its all-out war in February last year, Ukraine urgently needed weapons and ammunition to defend itself.European private arms dealers saw an opportunity and drove the prices of their services up.https://t.co/Pm6l7uD9wd 7:10 a.m.: Leopard 2 and Abrams tanks pledged by the West will give Ukraine a substantial boost in its fight against invading Russian forces, but numbers are a key factor and time is of the essence as the war grinds on and both sides prepare for possible offensives in the coming months, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty reported in its news analysis, quoting experts.

The promised deliveries are also an important sign of support from the United States and its European allies, but tanks are not the only weapons that Ukraine wants from the West as it struggles to fend off sustained attacks, regain territory, and ultimately drive Russian troops from the country.

Tanks are “a vital part of the recipe,” retired U.S. Army Major John Spencer, chair of Urban Warfare Studies at the Madison Policy Forum, a New York-based think tank focusing on security issues, told RFE/RL. “They need a tank that will overmatch that majority of Russian tanks.”

Western tanks like the Leopard 2 and the Abrams are superior because they have better sight capabilities, enabling them to quickly find and target enemy armor, and better stabilization, allowing them to fire with accuracy while on the move, he said.

Experts say they are also safer than Russian models with tough blast doors separating the crew inside from the stored ammunition.

So far Germany, the United States, and the United Kingdom have agreed to transfer about 60 tanks, but more announcements are expected in the coming days and weeks. Earlier this month, the United Kingdom said it would send 14 Challenger 2 battle tanks to Ukraine.

Valeriy Zaluzhniy, the commander-in-chief of Ukraine's armed forces, said in December that his country needs 300 tanks, 600-700 armored fighting vehicles, and 500 howitzers to push the Russians back, a number one former U.S. lieutenant general called “a really big ask.”

Ukraine had about 850 tanks prior to the war and lost at least half of them, according to Oryx, a website that uses open-source tools to count destroyed equipment. The actual loss is likely much higher. Ukraine does not disclose its tank count, saying it is a state secret.

6:50 a.m.: Tank warfare.#AFPGraphics compares some of the tanks currently being used or soon to be sent to the battlefields of Ukraine- The Russian T-72 - The German Leopard 2- The US M1 Abrams- The UK’s Challenger 2 pic.twitter.com/EPBqEPwwi7 6:35 a.m.: Ukrainian air defenses shot down 47 of the 55 missiles Russian forced fired at Ukraine, the country's top general said on Thursday, Reuters reported. Moscow used the Kh-47 Kinzhal hypersonic missile, among other models, General Valery Zaluzhny said on his Telegram channel. Twenty of the incoming missiles were shot down around the area of the capital Kyiv, he added. "The goal of the Russians remains unchanged: psychological pressure on Ukrainians and the destruction of critical infrastructure," he wrote. "But we cannot be broken!" 6:15 a.m.: Japan, as this year's G-7 chair, expects Russia's invasion of Ukraine to dominate talks this year among the world's major advanced economies, its top finance diplomat, Masato Kanda, told Reuters. "Sanctions against Russia and support for Ukraine will be a top priority at G-7 finance track under Japan's chair," Kanda, who will oversee deputy-level negotiations on economic policy among the Group of Seven (G-7) nations this year, said in an interview. 6 a.m.: The French foreign minister, Catherine Colonna, visited the southern Ukrainian city of Odesa on Thursday, Ukraine's foreign minister said on Twitter. Colonna's visit to Odesa took place on the same day that Russian missile strikes hit energy infrastructure in the region and caused blackouts, according to local officials. À Odessa!Pour marquer le soutien de la France à la souveraineté de l'#Ukraine, aujourd'hui comme hier. pic.twitter.com/gdxaY60o4h  5:40 a.m.: The Associated Press reported that the International Olympic Committee, or the IOC, has signaled that it wants to let Russian athletes compete in the 2024 Paris Olympics under as neutral athletes. “A pathway for athletes’ participation in competition under strict conditions should therefore be further explored,” the IOC said in a statement. Tuesday on Telegram, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy wrote that he “particularly emphasized that athletes from Russia should have no place at the Olympic Games in Paris” in a talk with French President Emmanuel Macron. 5:20 a.m.: A Russia-based hacking group named Cold River is behind an expansive and ongoing information-gathering campaign that has struck various targets in government, politics, academia, defense, journalism, and activism, Britain said on Thursday, according to Reuters. In an advisory, the National Cyber Security Center, part of Britain's GCHQ eavesdropping intelligence agency, said Cold River researches its targets and impersonates people around them using faked email addresses and social media profiles. "There is often some correspondence between attacker and target, sometimes over an extended period, as the attacker builds rapport," the advisory said. Russia's embassies in London and Washington did not immediately respond to emailed requests for comment about the NCSC's comments. The advisory did not directly attribute the digital attacks to the Russian government. Once a rapport has been built with a target, Cold River hackers encourage the target to click on a malicious link which tricks them into entering their login credentials on a website controlled by the group, the advisory said. The hackers use those stolen credentials to log into the target's email accounts, "from where they are known to access and steal emails and attachments from the victim's inbox," it added. 5 a.m.: A German citizen was arrested at the Munich airport on suspicion of treason for allegedly colluding with an intelligence service employee to pass on intelligence to Russia, Reuters cited the prosecutor general's office as saying on Thursday. The man, identified as Arthur E., was arrested on Sunday upon arriving in Germany from the United States, the prosecutor said in a statement. He is said to be an associate of Carsten L., an employee of the German foreign intelligence service (BND) who was arrested in December on suspicion of spying for Russia. Arthur E., who is not a German intelligence employee, is believed to have passed on to the Russian intelligence service information he had obtained from Carten L., according to the prosecutor's statement. An arrest warrant had already been issued for Arthur E., who was brought before a judge of Germany's top criminal court on Monday and remanded in custody, the statement added. The investigation was conducted it close cooperation with the BND and the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the prosecutor said. German authorities have warned of likely heightened Russian spying given the Kremlin's stand-off with the West over the Russian invasion of Ukraine. 4:35 a.m.: "On Christmas and New Year Belgrade was like Casablanca — there's no spy that hasn't occupied our hotels," said Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic. Agence France-Presse had the full story on Russian exiles and Russian agents living in the Serbian capital, and the high tensions and loaded threats that extend well beyond Russia’s borders. 4:15 a.m.: The mayor of Ukraine's capital Kyiv said one person had been killed and two more were wounded on Thursday after Russia launched more than a dozen missiles in its latest large-scale aerial offensive. "As a result of a rocket hitting a non-residential building in the Golosiivsky district, there is information that one person is dead and two wounded," Kyiv's mayor Vitali Klitschko said in a statement on social media, Agence France-Presse reported. The Kyiv city military administration said the death was due to parts of a missile falling. 4 a.m.: Authorities in Ukraine's southern region of Odessa said Thursday that two energy facilities were hit by Russian missiles, in the latest attack by Moscow's forces against critical infrastructure, Agence France-Presse reported. "There is already information about damage done to two critical energy infrastructure facilities in Odessa. There are no injured. Air Defence Forces are working over the Odessa region," the head of the region's military administration, Yuriy Kruk, said on social media. 3:30 a.m.: Kyiv's mayor urged residents to stay in shelters on Thursday morning after an explosion was heard in Ukraine's capital amid what officials said was a Russian missile salvo, Reuters reported. "Explosion in Kyiv! Remain in shelters," Kyiv mayor Vitali Klitschko wrote on Telegram. Reuters reporters in Kyiv heard at least one explosion. Russian missile impacts were also reported at unspecified sites in Ukraine's central region of Vinnytsia and other parts of the country, Yuriy Ignat, the Air Force spokesman, said on Thursday. "In several regions and Vinnytsia region in particular there are impacts of Russian missiles," he said in a TV broadcast. 3 a.m.: Ukraine said Thursday that Russian forces had fired more than 30 missiles at targets across the country, in the latest wave of attacks that have put pressure on Ukraine's air defense systems, Agence France-Presse reported. "We expect more than 30 missiles, which have already started to appear in various territories. Air defense systems are working," Yuriy Ignat, a Ukrainian military spokesman, told local media. 2:30 a.m.: Russia launched its latest air attack on Ukraine during rush hour on Thursday morning and officials told Ukrainians to take cover in shelters as air defense forces shot down incoming missiles. A Reuters reporter heard the sound of a missile flying overhead at a low altitude, about 30 kms from the capital Kyiv. Two missiles were spotted over the territory of the Mykolaiv region, its governor, Vitaly Kim, said on the Telegram messaging app. "Missiles are flying inside the territory of Ukraine. At least two northwest through Mykolaiv region," he said. An air raid alert wailed across the country as people were heading to work. In the capital, people sheltered in a metro station, with some sitting on blankets and small plastic chairs. "The first Russian missiles have been shot down," Andriy Yermak, head of the president's office said. Russia has targeted critical infrastructure with missile and drone strikes since October, causing sweeping blackouts and other outages during winter. DTEK, Ukraine's largest private energy producer, said it was conducting emergency power shutdowns in the capital, Kyiv, the surrounding region, and also the regions of Odesa and Dnipropetrovsk due to a danger of missile attack. Overnight, the military said its anti-aircraft defenses had shot down all 24 drones sent by Russia. Fifteen of the drones were downed around the capital Kyiv where there were no reports of any damage. 2 a.m.: U.S. officials balked for months at sending M1 Abrams tanks to Ukraine, insisting they were too complicated and too hard to maintain and repair. That has abruptly changed. Ukraine’s desperate pleas for tanks have been answered with a sweeping, trans-Atlantic yes. The U.S. now says it will send 31 of the 70-ton Abrams battle tanks to Ukraine, and Germany says it will send 14 Leopard 2 tanks and allow other countries to do the same. The dramatic reversal was the culmination of intense international pressure and diplomatic arm-twisting that played out over the last week. The Associated Press has this explainer. U.S. officials hesitated sending M1 Abrams tanks to Ukraine for months, insisting they were too complicated and too difficult to maintain. That has abruptly changed.Here's what you should know about the Biden administration's recent reversal. https://t.co/TljTwJR0Zu  1:45 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 26 January 2023 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/BSk9mPZcWF🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/nfcCV7CXk6  1:30 a.m.: Novak Djokovic's father has been filmed posing with fans brandishing pro-Russian flags at the Australian Open in scenes Ukraine's ambassador Thursday slammed as "a disgrace," Agence France-Presse reported. The Serbian star had just booked his place in the tournament semi-final with a straight set thumping of Russian opponent Andrey Rublev in Rod Laver Arena on Wednesday night. After the match, a group of fans unfurled Russian flags near the stadium, including one featuring Vladimir Putin's face, chanting pro-Russian slogans. Tennis Australia said four people "revealed inappropriate flags and symbols and threatened security guards." Police were called and they were ejected from Melbourne Park. A video later posted to a pro-Russian Australian YouTube account showed Djokovic's father Srdjan posing with a man holding the Putin flag. It was captioned: "Novak Djokovic's father makes bold political statement." Serbian tennis reporters confirmed it was Djokovic's father and the Melbourne Age newspaper reported he said in Serbian: "Long live Russia." Spectators are banned from having Russian or Belarusian flags at the Grand Slam after Ukraine's ambassador to Australia and New Zealand, Vasyl Myroshnychenko, demanded action when they were seen among the crowd last week. 1:05 a.m.: Reuters reported that Ukraine declared an air raid alert over most of the country Thursday morning. 12:55 a.m.: Since the start of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Biden and European allies have sought to present an image of harmonious support for Ukraine despite occasional disagreements, Reuters reported. But conflicting opinions on sending Abrams and Leopard tanks had the distinct possibility of distorting that image. Reuters provided a look into the negotiations that led to the U.S.’s promise to send Abrams tanks, and what that could mean for Ukraine and its European allies. 12:30 a.m.: The Russian military appears to be shifting its focus towards conventional forces and away from the non-traditional force structure of the Wagner Group, potentially in preparation for a decisive effort in #Luhansk Oblast. On the strategic level...https://t.co/DuNuupa4lp https://t.co/6DnmvHGRKx  12:01 a.m.: President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has urged a senior U.N. official to help find a way to resolve what Ukrainian authorities decry as a serious consequence of 11 months of war — the deportation to Russia of thousands of adults and children, Reuters reported. Ukraine has for months denounced reports of mass deportations to Russia, often to remote regions thousands of kilometers from Ukraine. Russia denies any suggestion of mistreatment or criminal intent, describing the mass movements as evacuations. "The discussion focused above all on our people that the occupiers have deported to Russia," Zelenskyy said in his nightly video address, referring to talks with U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi earlier on Wednesday. "These are adults, these are our children. A mechanism is needed to protect and bring back people and to bring to account all those who are guilty of deportations. I am certain the U.N. institutions can show leadership in resolving this issue." Some information in this report came from The Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse.