For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST. 12:13 p.m.: According to the Joint Coordination Centre four vessels left Ukrainian ports Sunday, carrying a total of 100,900 metric tons of grain and other food products under the Black Sea Grain Initiative. The vessels that began today their outbound voyage are: 1. LEO I (IMO 9231561) from Odesa to ports of Sri Lanka, carrying 49,500 metric tons of wheat. 2. TRUE HARMONY (IMO 9470789) from Odesa to ports of Egypt, carrying 25,900 metric tons of corn. 3. MKK 1 (IMO 8902929) from Pivdenniy/Yuzhny to Mersin, Türkiye, carrying 13,000 metric tons of peas. 4. BOMUSTAFA O (IMO 9114476) from Chornomorsk to Liverpool, the United Kingdom, carrying 12,500 metric tons of sunflower seeds. Two inbound vessels, DERG (IMO 9393060) to Pivdenniy/Yuzhny and ATA (IMO 9521899) to Odesa, transited through the maritime humanitarian corridor under the Black Sea Grain Initiative heading towards Ukrainian ports as follows: Also Sunday, the joint inspection teams concluded seven inspections, two onboard outbound vessels GAT FEELING (IMO 9467615) and XIN SHUN (IMO 9252199) and five onboard inbound vessels BASEL ATHENA (IMO 9164809), TORC (IMO 6544683), REACHY SUMMER (IMO 94588755), ANDROS SPIRIT (IMO 9592537) and DEEP BLUE (IMO 9616723). As of 8 January, the total tonnage of grain and other foodstuffs exported from the three Ukrainian ports is 16,945,661 metric tons. A total of 1,262 voyages (629 inbound and 633 outbound) have been enabled so far. Currently, 27 vessels are waiting for inspection: 5 of them waiting to move into Ukrainian ports and 22 loaded with cargo waiting to sail to their global destinations. 71 applications for participation in the Initiative have been submitted. The JCC closely monitors the passage of commercial vessels through the maritime humanitarian corridor. 11:52 a.m.: The Head of Ukraine’s Presidential Office Andriy Yermak reported on Telegram Sunday, that 50 Ukrainian military personnel were freed from Russian captivity and returned to Ukraine in a prisoner exchange. Among those returned are reportedly 33 officers and 17 privates and sergeants. Yermak noted that those who were returned were part of Ukraine’s Armed Forces, territorial defense units, naval forces, State Border Guard Service, National Guard, and Special Operations Forces, The Kyiv Independent reported. The released personnel were taken captive at the formerly Russian-occupied Chornobyl nuclear power plant, as well as in Kyiv, Chernihiv, and Kherson oblasts. Some of them had defended the city of Mariupol and Bakhmut in Donetsk Oblast. “This is not the last exchange,” Yermak said. “Our task is to return all our people and we will fulfill it.” At least 3,392 Ukrainian soldiers and civilians remain in Russian captivity as of Jan. 3, according to Alyona Verbytska, the President’s Commissioner for Protecting Defenders Rights. These are the numbers that Russia has officially confirmed, she said. Ukraine retrieved nearly 1,600 prisoners of war in 2022, according to the Ministry for Reintegration of Temporarily Occupied Territories. In the recent prisoner exchange on Dec. 31, 140 Ukrainians were freed from Russian captivity, according to the Head of the President’s Office, Andriy Yermak. 11:07 a.m.: The Bosnian Serb separatist leader Milorad Dodik awarded Sunday, Russian President Vladimir Putin with the highest medal of honor for his “patriotic concern and love” for the Serb-controlled half of Bosnia. “Putin is responsible for developing and strengthening cooperation and political and friendly relations between RS (Republika Srpska) and Russia,” the Bosnian Serb president, Milorad Dodik, said at the awards ceremony in the Bosnian Serb stronghold of Banja Luka. Dodik, who visited Putin in September in Moscow, has kept close ties with the Russian president despite Russia's war in Ukraine. The medal will be presented to Putin during the next meeting between the two, Russian Ambassador Igor Kalbukhov said. A U.S.-brokered peace deal in 1995 ended a war in Bosnia that left at least 100,000 people dead and millions homeless, but left the country deeply divided between its three main ethnic groups. Moscow has been exploiting the divisions by tacitly supporting Dodik’s separatist policies, The Associated Press reported. 10:27 a.m.: A Russian rocket strike on the Ukrainian city of Kramatorsk damaged but did not destroy buildings and there were no obvious signs of casualties, a Reuters witness said on Sunday casting doubt over Russi’s assertion that the attack had killed 600 Ukrainian soldiers. Reuters reporters visited the two college dormitories Russia's defense ministry said had been temporarily housing Ukrainian servicemen close to the front line of the war at the time of the overnight strike. Neither appeared to have been directly hit by missiles or seriously damaged. There were no obvious signs that soldiers had been living there and no sign of bodies or traces of blood. Some of the windows were broken at Hostel No. 47, which stood by a courtyard that had a big crater in it. The other building named by Russia's defense ministry, Hostel No. 28, was entirely intact. A crater lay about 50 meters away closer to some garages. Authorities in Kyiv did not immediately comment on the strike or on Russia's claim of hundreds of casualties. Kramatorsk's mayor earlier said there had been no casualties. Russia's defense ministry, in a statement, said the strike on the buildings in Kramatorsk was a revenge operation for a deadly Ukrainian attack last week on a Russian barracks in Makiivka, in part of the Donetsk region controlled by Moscow's forces, in which at least 89 servicemen were killed. 10:27 a.m.: A Russian rocket strike on the Ukrainian city of Kramatorsk damaged but did not destroy buildings and there were no obvious signs of casualties, a Reuters witness said on Sunday casting doubt over Russi’s assertion that the attack had killed 600 Ukrainian soldiers. Reuters reporters visited the two college dormitories Russia's defense ministry said had been temporarily housing Ukrainian servicemen close to the front line of the war at the time of the overnight strike. Neither appeared to have been directly hit by missiles or seriously damaged. There were no obvious signs that soldiers had been living there and no sign of bodies or traces of blood. Some of the windows were broken at Hostel No. 47, which stood by a courtyard that had a big crater in it. The other building named by Russia's defense ministry, Hostel No. 28, was entirely intact. A crater lay about 50 meters away closer to some garages. Authorities in Kyiv did not immediately comment on the strike or on Russia's claim of hundreds of casualties. Kramatorsk's mayor earlier said there had been no casualties. Russia's defense ministry, in a statement, said the strike on the buildings in Kramatorsk was a revenge operation for a deadly Ukrainian attack last week on a Russian barracks in Makiivka, in part of the Donetsk region controlled by Moscow's forces, in which at least 89 servicemen were killed. 9:45 a.m.: For the first time in 31 years since Ukraine’s independence, hundreds of Ukrainians heard the Orthodox Christmas service Saturday, in the Ukrainian language. At the Monastery of Caves, a famed cathedral in Kyiv and an UNESCO world heritage landmark, the Ukrainian held liturgy was a demonstration of independence from the Russian Orthodox Church. A video screen was put up outside for the overflow of worshipers despite the frigid temperatures of -10 C (14 F). The cathedral and monastery complex has been a pilgrimage site for centuries, The Associated Press reported. 9:15 a.m.: Russia and Belarus have stepped up joint military training, drawing on Moscow's experience of fighting in Ukraine with an emphasis on urban warfare, the Belarusian defense ministry's TV channel reported on Sunday. The Belarusian Defense Ministry said on Thursday that Moscow and Minsk had bolstered their joint military grouping in Belarus with weapons, soldiers and specialized equipment and planned to hold joint aviation drills. Heightened military cooperation between the two allies comes amid speculation in Ukraine and the West that Moscow may use Belarus as a launching pad for a new attack on Ukraine from the north, Reuters reported. 8:49 a.m.: Two thermal power plants in part of Ukraine's Donetsk region controlled by Russian forces were damaged in a rocket attack by the Ukrainian army, Moscow-installed officials and Russia's state TASS news agency said on Sunday. Reuters reports, initial information suggested that the plants in Zuhres and Novyi Svit had been hit and that some people working there were injured, the officials said on their Telegram channels. One person was killed as a result of the attack on the Starobesheve power plant in Novyi Svit, TASS reported. "The body of one dead woman was extracted from under the rubble at the plant," the agency said, citing an emergency services representative. TASS had earlier said the strike was carried out using a multiple rocket launcher system. There was no immediate comment from Ukraine, which never publicly claims responsibility for attacks inside Russia or on Russian-controlled territory in Ukraine. 7:45 a.m.: Russia's defense ministry said on Sunday it had had killed more than 600 Ukrainian servicemen in a massive ricket strike on buildings in eastern Ukraine temporarily housing Ukrainian forces. It said the strike on Kramatorsk was revenge for Ukraine's deadly attack earlier this year on a Russian barracks in Makiivka part of the Donetsk region controlled by Moscow's forces. Reuters was not able to immediately verify the claim by Russian defense ministry. 5:19 a.m.: The Institute for the Study of War, a U.S. think tank, said in its latest Ukraine assessment that Russian forces reportedly continue to deplete their missile arsenal and stock of Iranian-made drones but will likely continue to threaten Ukrainian infrastructure at scale in the near term. Meanwhile, Russian and Ukrainian forces continued offensive operations near Svatove and Kreminna. 4:20 a.m.: A large explosion was reported on a section of a gas pipeline in Lutuhyny in the occupied Luhansk region, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty said, citing media reports. The RIA Novosti news agency said the explosion late Saturday resulted in a cutoff of gas service to more than 13,000 customers. Workers have been sent to the site to restore the gas pipeline, said Luhanskgaz, a regional Ukraine gas company. The explosion follows another explosion and fire on December 20 on a pipeline transporting Russian natural gas to Europe that killed three workers. A day earlier, a fire hit a natural gas field in the Siberian region of Irkutsk, injuring seven people. 3:15 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry said Russia's recent bolstering of fortifications in southern Ukraine seems to indicate Russia believes Ukrainian troops will strike in either in northern Luhansk Oblast, or in Zaporizhzhia. 2:07 a.m.: Ukraine has imposed sanctions on more than 100 Russian actors, musicians, and television personalities who Kyiv says are "propagandists of death" for supporting the war in Ukraine, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty reports. Mykhaylo Podolyak, a senior adviser to President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, said that the Russians had been blacklisted for supporting Russia's armed aggression in Ukraine. The decree imposing the sanctions was signed by Zelenskyy and published on the president's website. 1:23 a.m.: Russian forces launched a missile attack on the community of Merefa near Kharkiv on Saturday evening, wounding one person, The Kyiv Independent reported, citing Kharkiv Oblast Governor Oleh Syniehubov. Emergency responders are on the scene, Syniehubov said. Russian forces also attacked the outskirts of Zaporizhzhia, acting mayor Anatolii Kurtiev reported. The attacks took place amid the Kremlin’s Christmas truce, which it said would last from Friday to Saturday. Russian troops shelled the southern city of Kherson, killing one firefighter and injuring four more, according to Kherson Oblast Governor Yaroslav Yanushevysh. Ukraine’s General Staff reported Saturday evening that Russian forces continued to shell Ukrainian military positions with mortars, artillery, and tanks, despite the supposed cease-fire, which expired at midnight. Russia also conducted an airstrike and attacked Ukrainian settlements with multiple launch rocket systems seven times over the past 24 hours, according to the general staff. 12:02 a.m.: A Belarusian opposition leader says Belarusian authorities may soon begin a mobilization to provide military assistance to Russia in its war against Ukraine, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty reported. Pavel Latushka, who is based in Warsaw, was quoted Saturday as saying almost everything is ready for mobilization. Citing sources in Minsk, Latushka claimed in an interview with German media that most of the employees of the internal affairs organizations have been forced to surrender their passports, barring them from leaving the country in the event of a mobilization. Latushka also noted on Twitter the increase in Russian military personnel and equipment in Belarus. Read the original story by RFE/RL’s Russian Service. Some information came from Agence France-Presse, The Associated Press and Reuters.