For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST.  3 a.m.: According to Reuters, Russia's buffeted IT sector risks losing more workers in the new year because of planned legislation on remote working, as authorities try to lure back some of the tens of thousands who have gone abroad without prompting them to cut ties completely. Having relatively portable jobs, IT workers featured prominently among the many Russians who fled after Moscow sent its army into Ukraine on February 24 and the hundreds of thousands who followed when a military call-up began in September. The government estimates that 100,000 IT specialists currently work for Russian companies overseas. Now, legislation is being mooted for early next year that could ban remote working for some professions. Hawkish lawmakers, fearful that more Russian IT professionals could end up working in NATO countries and inadvertently sharing sensitive security information, have proposed banning some IT specialists from leaving Russia. But the Digital Ministry said in December that a total ban could make Russian IT firms less effective, and so less competitive: "In the end, whoever can attract the most talented staff, including those from abroad, will win." 2:29 a.m. : The fugitives reportedly include three Uzbek nationals, a Kyrgyz national, a Belarusian, and one Russian national who were said to have fled a Vagner training camp in the eastern Ukrainian Luhansk region.https://t.co/VdYwl9MTCm 2 a.m.: Detailed footage of brutal battles — from Russia’s invasion of Ukraine or from a game? Agence France-Presse reported on the stir over Arma 3, a video game with battle sequences so life-like, they take a starting role in disinformation campaigns. Videos reportedly from the front line, and often marked “Breaking News,” are actually sequences taken from streams of the game. Experts explain how to tell fact from fiction when following online channels and accounts. 1:27 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 02 January 2023 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/xO7eQ9ifYx🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/6KK91jqtJw 1 a.m.: As a result of overnight strikes on the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv, energy infrastructure facilities were damaged, causing power and heating outages, Reuters reported Mayor Vitali Klitschko as saying on Monday. 12:32 a.m.: A Ukrainian drone attack damaged a power supply facility in Russia's Bryansk region bordering Ukraine, Reuters reported the regional governor as saying on Monday. He added that there were no casualties. "A Ukrainian drone attack was carried out this morning on the Klimovsky district," Governor Alexander Bogomaz said on Telegram. "All emergency services are on site. As a result of the strike, the power supply facility was damaged, and there is no electricity." Reuters was not able to independently verify the report. The Klimovsky district of the Bryansk region borders Ukraine in its southern part. 12:01 a.m.: Russia has been targeting Ukraine's critical infrastructure in a series of drone attacks early on Monday on Kyiv and the region surrounding it, officials said. Reuters reported that Russia kept pounding Kyiv for the second night in a row, after firing a barrage of missiles over the capital on New Year's Eve night and earlier in the day. "It is loud in the region and in the capital: night drone attacks," Kyiv Governor Oleksiy Kuleba said on the Telegram messaging app. "Russians launched several waves of (Iranian-made) Shahed drones. Targeting critical infrastructure facilities. Air defense is at work." By 3 a.m. local time (0100 GMT), Ukraine's air defense systems destroyed 16 air objects above Kyiv, the city's military administration said. Air raid sirens were wailing by that time for more than three hours. Earlier in the night, debris from a destroyed drone over Kyiv hit the capital's northeastern district, wounding one, the city's Mayor Vitali Klitschko said. A 19-year-old man was taken to a hospital in Kyiv's Desnianskiy district, Klitschko said on the Telegram messaging app, after drone debris hit a road there and damaged a building. Reuters was not able to independently verify the information. Kyrylo Tymoshenko, Ukrainian presidential aide, said drone debris hit a road in the Desnianskiy district, in Kyiv's northeast, damaging a building next to it. The district, located on the left bank of the Dnipro River, is chiefly a residential area and the capital's most populous district. Ukraine's regional military command in the country's east said air defense systems destroyed nine Iranian-made Shahed drones over the Dnipropetrovsk and Zaporizhzhia regions by early hours of Monday. Some information in this report came from Reuters.