For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST. 10:17 a.m.: Russian forces have captured Soledar although Ukraine's leadership is still reluctant to acknowledge the loss of the industrial town. However, according to international monitors as well as sources used by The Kyiv Independent, Ukraine doesn’t control the town. As a result of a localized offensive operation in January, Russian forces managed to weaken Ukrainian defenses and seize the town, the first noticeable Russian success since their forces captured Sievierodonetsk and Lysychansk after fierce fighting in June and July. It is also a massive vanity project for Yevgeniy Prigozhyn, the Kremlin insider in charge of the notorious Wagner Group, who claimed credit for the victory. It also bolsters Putin’s Russian war propaganda. According to The Kyiv Independent, the loss of Soledar is largely the result of relentless human wave attacks exhausting Ukrainian defenses, as well as of crushing knockout blows by regular forces. The setback also indicates long-lasting Ukrainian issues with chaotic command and control and also the lack of centralized approach and coordination in the area. The lack of artillery and munitions to cope with endless and massive Russian frontal assaults has also played its role – it’s given Russian forces a window of opportunity for a resolute strike. But despite the Russian propaganda presenting the capture of Soledar as a major victory, it’s only of tactical significance so far. Russia continues with its attempts to build on the progress and sever the ground lines communications thanks to which Bakhmut keeps holding on. 9:13 a.m.: In a surprise visit to Kyiv Sunday, Former British Prime Minister Boris Johnson met with President Volodymyr Zelenskiy and pledged that Britain would "stick by Ukraine as long as it takes." Johnson, who left office in September, after a series of scandals, was prime minister when Russia invaded Ukraine last February and he sought to position London as Kyiv's top ally in the West. During his trip, Johnson visited Borodyanka and Bucha, the suburbs of the Ukrainian capital that became synonymous with atrocities in the West when Russian forces advanced towards Kyiv in the first phase of the invasion before being repelled. 8:32 a.m.: Russia's defense ministry said for the second straight day on Sunday that its forces were improving their positions in Ukraine's southern Zaporizhzhia region. "During offensive operations in the direction of Zaporizhzhia, units of the Eastern Military District took up more advantageous ground and positions," the defense ministry said. It claimed to have inflicted casualties and destroyed equipment including Ukrainian fighting vehicles, howitzers and two U.S.-made HIMARS rockets. Reuters was not able to independently verify Russia's battlefield accounts. Ukraine on Saturday countered Russia's claims of progress in Zaporizhzhia saying they were exaggerated. Fighting in recent weeks has centered around the town of Bakhmut in eastern Ukraine, where Russia's Wagner mercenaries and Ukrainian forces have been locked in a battle of attrition. With the war now on its11th month, Ukraine has said it believes Moscow is likely to attempt a new offensive soon. 7:45 a.m.: Vyacheslav Volodin, speaker of the Duma - Russia's lower house of parliament - warned that the United States and NATO's support of Ukraine is leading the world to a "terrible war," Reuters reported. As a member of Putin's Security Council, Volodin has access to the Russian president. "Deliveries of offensive weapons to the Kyiv regime will lead to a global catastrophe," Volodin said. "If Washington and NATO countries supply weapons that will be used to strike civilian cities and attempt to seize our territories, as they threaten, this will lead to retaliatory measures using more powerful weapons," Volodin said on the Telegram messaging app. "Arguments that the nuclear powers have not previously used weapons of mass destruction in local conflicts are untenable. Because these states did not face a situation where there was a threat to the security of their citizens and the territorial integrity of the country," he continued. Western allies pledged billions of dollars in weapons for Ukraine last week, although they failed to persuade Germany to lift a veto on providing German-made Leopard tanks which are held by a number of NATO members but whose transfer to Ukraine requires Berlin's approval. Volodin's comments followed a similar threat last week by Dmitry Medvedev, Russia's former prime minister and president. 5:21 a.m.: The Institute for the Study of War, a U.S. think tank, said in its latest Ukraine assessment that Russian forces conducted a small ground reconnaissance into northeastern Sumy Oblast. Additionally, Russian forces continued limited ground attacks to regain lost positions along the Svatove-Kreminna line and continued to conduct ground attacks around Bakhmut and west of Donetsk City. Russian forces are likely making incremental gains around Bakhmut. 4:19 a.m.: Germany's new defense minister, Boris Pistorius, plans to visit Ukraine soon, he told a German newspaper, as Berlin faces pressure to allow the shipment of German-made tanks to Ukraine. "What is certain is that I will travel to Ukraine quickly. Probably even within the next four weeks," Pistorius told Bild am Sonntag in an interview published Sunday. On Friday, Germany and Western allies reached no decision on whether Germany would agree to send Leopard 2 tanks to Ukraine, or permit other countries that have them to do so, despite Ukraine's pleas for modern tanks to boost its defense efforts. Asked about the tanks, Pistorius said in the interview: "We are in very close dialogue with our international partners, first and foremost with the U.S., on this issue." 3:26 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry said Russia has announced plans to boost its armed forces by 11% between 2023 and 2026. That's on top of an expansion intended to increase its ranks to 1.35 million, meaning that the ultimate goal is to have 1.5 million personnel. 2:13 a.m.: Ukraine's western allies might bridge delays in implementing a 10-point peace plan that the country has put forward, if each country takes responsibility for one part, the Ukraine's first lady said in an interview published Saturday, Reuters reported. Olena Zelenska told Swiss daily Neue Zuercher Zeitung quick delivery of weapons would hasten Ukraine's ability to win the war. For Ukraine, that meant "protecting our land, our talents and our children...," she said. "The frontiers of this war are the frontiers of Ukraine." But the peace plan introduced by her husband, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in November at the G-20 summit/ "The plan goes beyond that," she was quoted as saying. "It also entails judicial demands such as for an international war crimes tribunal... and for prisoners of war to be able to return to Ukraine . . . "There is a role that each country can take responsibility for." 1:09 a.m.: Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida is considering visiting Kyiv in February and holding talks with Ukraine's President Volodomyr Zelenskyy, Reuters reported, citing Japanese government sources. As chair of the Group of Seven leading economies this year, Japan wants to show it intends to keep providing support to Ukraine while it also aims to release a statement with Kyiv condemning Russia's aggression. Kishida will make a final decision about whether to go ahead with the visit based on the state of the war in Ukraine, multiple unnamed government sources said. Japan's foreign ministry was not immediately available to comment on the report. 12:02 a.m.: “We wanted to tell America and the whole world about what is happening in Ukraine,” said 17-year-old dancer Maria Honyukova of the Light Balance Kids dance troupe, describing the group’s recent triumph on a popular new U.S. television talent program. “And we also wanted to convey to the audience that light always wins.” When the house lights went up after the video-game-themed number in which the performers seemed to defy the laws of physics while dancing in darkness wearing illuminated costumes, the live audience for America’s Got Talent All Stars sprang to its feet and cheered. “It was your best performance you’ve ever done,” said competition judge and recording executive Simon Cowell. “I cannot tell you how brilliant that was.” A moment later, fellow judge and comedian Howie Mandel lauded the kids for bringing light from “arguably the darkest place in the world” before pressing the show’s Golden Buzzer, sending them immediately to the finale. RFE/RL’s Ukrainian Service has the report. Some information in this report came from Reuters.