For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST. 12:45 p.m.: Russian President Vladimir Putin should go on trial in Ukraine this year for war crimes committed there, says Sir Geoffrey Nice the lawyer, who led the prosecution of former Serbian leader Slobodan Milosevic. Sir Geoffrey Nice told the BBC the Russian president was a "guilty man" for attacks on civilian targets during the war. He called Moscow's actions during the invasion as "crimes against humanity" - as civilian targets were being attacked. Russian forces have been accused by the international community of thousands of abuses since their full-scale invasion on Ukraine last February. The prosecutor-general in Kyiv says more than 62,000 war crimes have so far been recorded, including the deaths of more than 450 children. The BBC has not been able to verify these figures. Russia denies committing war crimes. 11:45 a.m.: Moscow said Sunday its New Year's Eve attacks on Ukraine targeted the pro-Western country's drone production, claiming it had managed to thwart Kyiv's "terror attacks" against Russia, Agence France-Presse reported. Kyrylo Tymoshenko, the deputy head of President Volodymyr Zelensky's office, said that two people died in Kyiv and the southern region of Kherson and 50 were injured as a result of the Russian strikes. A 22-year-old woman died from her wounds in the western city of Khmelnytskyi, governor Sergiy Gamaliy said on Sunday.  #UPDATE Moscow said on Sunday its New Year's Eve attacks on Ukraine targeted the pro-Western country's drone production, claiming it had managed to scupper Kyiv's "terror attacks" against Russia ▶️ https://t.co/ZhOZnZ6g5v pic.twitter.com/EE1rU5ODGz 11:00 a.m.: In a post on Instagram Saturday, Aleksei Navalny, the prominent opposition leader who has been behind bars since early 2021, said that he had received so many seasonal decorations in letters from supporters that he hung them up in his cell at his prison outside Moscow. An hour later, the warden took them down, “but the feeling remained,” he said. 10:30 a.m.: CNN reporter Matthew Chance, covering Russia’s invasion from Ukraine recounts key moments from the war in 2022. He said, “2022 will be remembered as the year that Russia was held onto the abyss by Vladimir Putin and his extraordinary war in Ukraine." Chance added “not only is the country facing a potentially devastating military defeat, but also it is facing economic catastrophe.” 10:00a.m.: Ukraine’s General Staff reported Sunday that Russia has lost 106,720 troops in Ukraine since the beginning of its invasion on Ukraine on February 24, 2022. Ukraine’s General Staff also said that Russia had also lost 3,031 tanks, 6,084 armored fighting vehicles, 4,720 vehicles and fuel tanks, 2,021 artillery systems, 423 multiple launch rocket systems, 213 air defense systems, 283 airplanes, 269 helicopters, 1,792 drones, and 16 boats. 9:00 a.m.: The depletion of the Russian military’s artillery ammunition stocks will likely impact their ability to conduct a high pace of operations near Bakhmut, Donetsk Oblast, and elsewhere in Ukraine, according to the Institute for the Study of War. 8:00 a.m.: Ukrainians defiantly cheered from their balconies while their air defenses blasted Russian missiles and drones out of the sky in the first hours of 2023, Reuters reported. Ukraine's Air Force command said it had destroyed 45 Iranian-made Shahed drones overnight -- 32 of them on Sunday after midnight and 13 late on Saturday. That was on top of 31 missile attacks and 12 air strikes across the country in the past 24 hours. Russia's defense ministry said it had targeted production, storage and launch sites of Ukrainian drones with long range missiles to thwart what it called potential "terrorist attacks." Vyacheslav Gladkov, governor of the southern Russian region of Belgorod bordering Ukraine, said overnight shelling of the outskirts of Shebekino town had damaged houses but there were no casualties. Russia's RIA state news agency reported, citing a local doctor, that six people were killed when a hospital in Russian-occupied Donetsk in eastern Ukraine was attacked on Saturday. The Russian-installed military headquarters of the self-declared Donetsk People's Republic said Ukrainian shelling had killed one man and wounded one woman in the city of Yasynuvata. There was no immediate response from the Ukrainian government and Reuters was not able to verify the reports independently. 7:45 a.m.: Ukrainians welcomed the New Year amidst sirens blaring and fresh missile strikes targeting civilians' infrastructure across Ukraine. The death toll from Russia’s massive New Year Eve assault across the country climbed to at least three. In the newly liberated southern city of Kherson, night-time shelling killed one person, wounded another and blew out hundreds of windows in a children’s hospital, according to the deputy presidential chief of staff. Multiple blasts rocked Kyiv and other areas of Ukraine on Saturday, in a sign that the pace of Russian attacks had picked up to ring in the New Year. Ukrainian officials claimed Russia was now deliberately targeting civilians, seeking to create a climate of fear and erode morale, The Associated Press reported. 5:18 a.m.: The Institute for the Study of War, a U.S. think tank, said in its latest Ukraine assessment that Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu demonized Ukraine and announced that Russian victory is inevitable in his New Year’s Eve speech. Russian forces are likely depleting their stocks of artillery ammunition and will struggle to support their current pace of operations in Ukraine as a result, the assessment said. Russian forces launched another round of missile strikes targeting Ukrainian critical infrastructure but at a reduced intensity compared to previously massive waves of strikes. 4:23 a.m.: A provision in the recently signed defense spending bill mandates that the United States work to ease Ukraine's debt burden at the International Monetary Fund, which could create tensions at the world's lender-of-last-resort over one of its biggest borrowers. The National Defense Authorization Act requires American representatives to each global development bank, including the IMF, where the U.S. is the largest stakeholder, to use " the voice, vote, and influence " of the U.S. in seeking to assemble a voting bloc of countries that would change each institution's debt service relief policy regarding Ukraine. Among other things, the U.S. is tasked with forcing the IMF to reexamine and potentially end its surcharge policy on Ukrainian loans. Surcharges are added fees on loans imposed on countries that are heavily indebted to the IMF. The U.S. interest in changing the policy comes as it has distributed tens of billions for Ukrainian military and humanitarian aid since the Russian invasion began in February. Most recently, Ukraine will receive $44.9 billion in aid from the U.S. as part of a $1.7 trillion government-wide spending bill. Inevitably, some U.S. grant money is spent servicing IMF loans. 3:31 a.m.: Kyiv City Military Administration confirmed Sunday that air defense had downed 23 aerial targets, The Kyiv Independent reported. The administration didn't specify how many of the downed targets were drones. Missile debris was spotted on the road in the city's Dniprovskyi district. There has been no immediate word on casualties. 2:07 a.m.: About 30 minutes into the new year in Kyiv, air raid sirens sounded. Blasts were heard in and around Kyiv early on New Year's Day, Reuters witnesses reported, while the emergency services said air raid sirens were wailing across all Ukraine. With sirens blaring, some people in Kyiv shouted from their balconies, "Glory to Ukraine! Glory to heroes!" Kyiv city and region officials said on the Telegram messaging app that air defense systems were working. It was not immediately known whether any targets were hit. 12:02 a.m.: In 2022, Russia decided to fully abandon commitments to basic human rights and to attack Ukraine and global securityAt the year's end, Putin tries once again to force Ukrainians into darkness with despicable attacksWe are resolved to continue standing by Ukraine, also in 2023  Some information in this report came from Agence France-Presse, Associated Press and Reuters.