One would have to go back hundreds of years to find a monarch who reigned longer than Queen Elizabeth II. In her 70 years on the throne, she helped modernize the monarchy across decades of enormous social change, royal marriages and births, and family scandals. For most Britons, she was the only monarch they had ever known. Her death in September was arguably the most high-profile death this year, prompting a collective outpouring of grief and respect for her steady leadership as well as some criticism of the monarchy's role in colonialism. She likely met more people than anyone in history, and her image — on stamps, coins and bank notes — was among the most reproduced in the world. Other world leaders who died in 2022 include former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, who died in August. His efforts to revitalize the Soviet Union led to the collapse of communism there and the end of the Cold War. He eventually resigned after an attempted coup, just as republics declared independence from the Soviet Union. The year also saw the assassination of former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who was fatally shot during a campaign speech in July. Other political figures who died this year include: former U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, former Northern Ireland First Minister David Trimble, former Chinese President Jiang Zemin, former Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk, former Mexico President Luis Echeverria, former Peru President Francisco Morales Bermudez, Cuban diplomat Ricardo Alarcón, former U.S. Senator Orrin G. Hatch, former Angolan President José Eduardo dos Santos, American Indian Movement co-founder Clyde Bellecourt and former U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter. Among the entertainers who died this year was groundbreaking actor Sidney Poitier, who played roles with such dignity that it helped change the way Black people are portrayed on screen. Poitier, who died in January, became the first Black actor to win the Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in the 1963 film "Lilies of the Field." Others in the world of arts and entertainment who died in 2022 include: director Jean-Luc Godard; filmmaker Ivan Reitman; visual artists Paula Rego and Carmen Herrera; fashion designers Issey Miyake and Hanae Mori; fashion editor André Leon Talley; country singers Loretta Lynn and Naomi Judd; rock star Meat Loaf; Fleetwood Mac singer-songwriter Christine McVie; Foo Fighters drummer Taylor Hawkins; Depeche Mode keyboardist Andy "Fletch" Fletcher; Bollywood singer and composer Bappi Lahiri; singer-actors Olivia Newton-John and Irene Cara; "Sesame Street" actor Bob McGrath; jazz pianist Ramsey Lewis; rappers Coolio and Takeoff; singers Ronnie Spector, Judith Durham, Lata Mangeshkar and Gal Costa; and actors Angela Lansbury, Leslie Jordan, Bob Saget, Tony Dow, Nichelle Nichols, Ray Liotta, Irene Papas, Sally Kellerman, Anne Heche, Bernard Cribbins, Yvette Mimieux and June Brown. Here is a roll call of some influential figures who died in 2022. January Dan Reeves, 77. He won a Super Bowl as a player with the Dallas Cowboys but was best known for a long coaching career that included four blowout losses in the title game with the Denver Broncos and the Atlanta Falcons. January 1. Sheikh Saleh bin Mohammed al-Luhaidan, 90. An influential Saudi cleric who once served for years as head of the kingdom's Shariah courts and whose ultraconservative views sparked outcry. January 5. Peter Bogdanovich, 82. The ascot-wearing cinephile and director of 1970s black-and-white classics such as "The Last Picture Show" and "Paper Moon." January 6. Sidney Poitier, 94. He played roles of such dignity and intelligence that he transformed how Black people were portrayed on screen, becoming the first Black actor to win an Oscar for best lead performance and the first to be a top box-office draw. January 6. Marilyn Bergman, 93. The Oscar-winning lyricist who teamed with husband Alan Bergman on "The Way We Were," "How Do You Keep the Music Playing?" and hundreds of other songs. January 8. Bob Saget, 65. The actor-comedian known for his role as beloved single dad Danny Tanner on the sitcom "Full House" and as the wisecracking host of "America's Funniest Home Videos." January 9. Dwayne Hickman, 87. The actor and network TV executive who despite numerous achievements throughout his life would always be remembered fondly by a generation of baby boomers for his role as Dobie Gillis. January 9. Robert Durst, 78. The wealthy New York real estate heir and failed fugitive dogged for decades with suspicion in the disappearance and deaths of those around him before he was convicted last year of killing his best friend. January 10. David Sassoli, 65. An Italian journalist who worked his way up in politics while defending the downtrodden and oppressed to become president of the European Union's parliament. January 11. Clyde Bellecourt, 85. A leader in the Native American struggle for civil rights and a founder of the American Indian Movement. January 11. Ronnie Spector, 78. The cat-eyed, bee-hived rock 'n' roll siren who sang such 1960s hits as "Be My Baby," "Baby I Love You" and "Walking in the Rain" as the leader of the girl group the Ronettes. January 12. Iraj Pezeshkzad, 94. An Iranian author whose bestselling comic novel, "My Uncle Napoleon," lampooned Persian culture's self-aggrandizing and paranoid behavior as the country entered the modern era. January 12. Fred Parris, 85. The lead singer of the 1950s harmony group the Five Satins and composer of the classic doo-wop ballad "In the Still of the Night." January 13. Ralph Emery, 88. He became known as the dean of country music broadcasters over more than a half century in both radio and television. January 15. Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, 76. The former president of Mali who took office in a landmark election held after a destabilizing coup only to be ousted in another military takeover nearly seven years later. January 16. Charles McGee, 102. A Tuskegee Airman who flew 409 fighter combat missions over three wars and later helped to bring attention to the Black pilots who battled racism at home to fight for freedom abroad. January 16. Birju Maharaj, 83. A legend of classical Indian dance and among the country's most well-known performing artists. January 17. Yvette Mimieux, 80. The blond and blue-eyed 1960s film star of "Where the Boys Are," "The Time Machine" and "Light in the Piazza." January 17. André Leon Talley, 73. A towering and highly visible figure of the fashion world who made history as a rare Black editor in an overwhelmingly white industry. January 18. Meat Loaf, 74. The rock superstar loved by millions for his "Bat Out of Hell" album and for such theatrical, dark-hearted anthems as "Paradise By the Dashboard Light," "Two Out of Three Ain't Bad," and "I'd Do Anything for Love (But I Won't Do That)." January 20. Louie Anderson, 68. His four-decade career as a comedian and actor included his unlikely, Emmy-winning performance as mom to twin adult sons in the TV series "Baskets." January 21. Thich Nhat Hanh, 95. The revered Zen Buddhist monk who helped spread the practice of mindfulness in the West and socially engaged Buddhism in the East. January 22. Olavo de Carvalho, 74. A leading light of Brazil's conservative movement who stirred passions among both devotees and detractors. January 24. Fatma Girik, 79. A beloved Turkish screen actress of the 1960s and 1970s and one-time district mayor. January 24. Diego Verdaguer, 70. An Argentine singer-songwriter whose romantic hits such as "Corazón de papel," "Yo te amo" and "Volveré" sold nearly 50 million copies. January 27. Howard Hesseman, 81. He played the radio disc jockey Dr. Johnny Fever on the sitcom "WKRP in Cincinnati" and the actor-turned-history teacher Charlie Moore on "Head of the Class." January 29. Cheslie Kryst, 30. The winner of the Miss USA pageant and a correspondent for the entertainment news program "Extra." January 30.  February Shintaro Ishihara, 89. A fiery nationalist politician remembered as Tokyo's gaffe-prone governor who provoked a spat with China by calling for Japan's purchase of disputed islands in the East China Seas. February 1. Robin Herman, 70. A gender barrier-breaking reporter for The New York Times who was the first female journalist to interview players in the locker room after an NHL game. February 1. Monica Vitti, 90. The versatile star of Michelangelo Antonioni's "L'Avventura" and other Italian alienation films of the 1960s, and later a leading comic actress. February 2. Ashley Bryan, 98. A prolific and prize-winning children's author and illustrator who told stories of Black life, culture and folklore in such acclaimed works as "Freedom Over Me," "Beautiful Blackbird" and "Beat the Story-Drum, Pum-Pum." February 4. Lata Mangeshkar, 92. A legendary Indian singer with a prolific, groundbreaking catalog and a voice recognized by more than a billion people in South Asia. February 6. Douglas Trumbull, 79. A visual effects master who showed movie audiences indelible images of the future and of space in films such as "2001: A Space Odyssey," "Close Encounters of the Third Kind" and "Blade Runner." February 7. Luc Montagnier, 89. A French researcher who won a Nobel Prize in 2008 for discovering the HIV virus and more recently spread false claims about the coronavirus. February 8. Betty Davis, 77. A bold and pioneering funk singer, model and songwriter of the 1960s and 1970s who was credited with inspiring then-husband Miles Davis' landmark fusion of jazz and more contemporary sounds. February 9. Ivan Reitman, 75. The influential filmmaker and producer behind many of the most beloved comedies of the late 20th century, from "Animal House" to "Ghostbusters." February 12. Carmen Herrera, 106. A Cuban-born artist whose radiant color palette and geometric paintings were overlooked for decades before the art world took notice. February 12. P.J. O'Rourke, 74. The prolific author and satirist who refashioned the irreverence and "Gonzo" journalism of the 1960s counterculture into a distinctive brand of conservative and libertarian commentary. February 15. Bappi Lahiri, 69. A popular Bollywood singer and composer who won millions of fans with his penchant for feet-tapping disco music in the 1980s and 1990s. February 15. Gail S. Halvorsen, 101. A U.S. military pilot known as the "Candy Bomber" for his candy airdrops during the Berlin Airlift after World War II ended. February 16. Jamal Edwards, 31. A British music entrepreneur who championed U.K. rap and grime and helped launch the careers of artists including Ed Sheeran, Jessie J and Stormzy. February 20. Dr. Paul Farmer, 62. A U.S. physician, humanitarian and author renowned for providing health care to millions of impoverished people worldwide and who co-founded the global nonprofit Partners in Health. February 21. Mark Lanegan, 57. The singer whose raspy baritone and darkly poetic songwriting made Screaming Trees an essential part of the early Seattle grunge scene and brought him an acclaimed solo career. February 22. Sally Kellerman, 84. The Oscar and Emmy-nominated actor who played Margaret "Hot Lips" Houlihan in director Robert Altman's 1970 film "MASH." February 24. John Landy, 91. An Australian runner who dueled with Roger Bannister to be the first person to run a four-minute mile. February 24. Shirley Hughes, 94. A British children's author and illustrator best known for her popular "Alfie" series and classic picture book "Dogger." February 25.  March Alan Ladd Jr., 84. The Oscar-winning producer and studio boss who as a 20th Century Fox executive greenlit "Star Wars." March 2. Autherine Lucy Foster, 92. The first Black student to enroll at the University of Alabama. March 2. Shane Warne, 52. He was regarded as one of the greatest players, most astute tacticians and ultimate competitors in the long history of cricket. March 4. Inge Deutschkron, 99. A Holocaust survivor who hid in Berlin during the Third Reich to escape deportation to Nazi death camps and later wrote an autobiography. March 9. Emilio Delgado, 81. The actor and singer who for 45 years was a warm and familiar presence in children's lives and a rare Latino face on American television as fix-it shop owner Luis on "Sesame Street." March 10. Mario Terán, 80. The Bolivian soldier who pulled the trigger to execute famed revolutionary guerrilla Ernesto "Che" Guevara. March 10. Traci Braxton, 50. A singer who was featured with her family in the reality television series "Braxton Family Values." March 12. William Hurt, 71. The Oscar winner’s laconic charisma and self-assured subtlety as an actor made him one of the 1980s foremost leading men in movies such as "Broadcast News," "Body Heat" and "The Big Chill." March 13. Brent Renaud, 50. An acclaimed filmmaker who traveled to some of the darkest and most dangerous corners of the world for documentaries that transported audiences to little-known places of suffering. March 13. Eugene Parker, 94. A physicist who theorized the existence of solar wind and became the first person to witness the launch of a spacecraft bearing his name. March 15. Lauro F. Cavazos Jr., 95. A Texas ranch foreman's son who rose to become the first Latino to serve in a presidential Cabinet as U.S. Secretary of Education during the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush. March 15. Don Young, 88. The Alaska congressman was the longest-serving Republican in the history of the U.S. House. March 18. Rabbi Chaim Kanievsky, 94. One of the most influential leaders in Israel's ultra-Orthodox Jewish community. March 18. Madeleine Albright, 84. A child refugee from Nazi- and then Soviet-dominated Eastern Europe who rose to become the first female secretary of state and a mentor to many current and former American statesmen and women. March 23. Dagny Carlsson, 109. Dubbed the world's oldest blogger, who wrote about her life in Sweden based on the attitude that you should never think you are too old to do what you want to do. March 24. Taylor Hawkins, 50. For 25 years, he was the drummer for Foo Fighters and best friend of frontman Dave Grohl. March 25. Noam Shalit, 68. The father of a captive Israeli soldier who battled for five years to free his son from his Hamas captors. March 30. Richard Howard, 92. A Pulitzer Prize-winning poet celebrated for his exuberant monologues of historical figures and a prolific translator who helped introduce readers to a wide range of French literature. March 31.  April Estelle Harris, 93. She hollered her way into TV history as George Costanza's short-fused mother on "Seinfeld" and voiced Mrs. Potato Head in the "Toy Story" franchise. April 2. June Brown, 95. She played the chain-smoking Cockney matriarch Dot Cotton on the British soap opera "EastEnders" for 35 years. April 3. Bobby Rydell, 79. A pompadoured heartthrob of early rock 'n roll who was a star of radio, television and the movie musical "Bye Bye Birdie." April 5. Vladimir Zhirinovsky, 75. The Russian nationalist leader was a senior lawmaker whose sulphurous rhetoric and antics alarmed the West but appealed to Russians' aggrievement and wounded pride. April 6. Mimi Reinhard, 107. A secretary in Oskar Schindler's office who typed up the list of Jews he saved from extermination by Nazi Germany. April 8. Gilbert Gottfried, 67. The actor and legendary standup comic known for his raw, scorched voice and crude jokes. April 12. Letizia Battaglia, 87. An Italian photographer who documented the arrests of Mafia bosses and the bodies of their victims. April 13. Liz Sheridan, 93. She played doting mom to Jerry Seinfeld on his hit sitcom. April 15. Rosario Ibarra, 95. Her long struggle to learn the fate of her disappeared son helped develop Mexico's human rights movement and led her to become the country's first female presidential candidate. April 16. Harrison Birtwistle, 87. The creator of daringly experimental modern music who was recognized as one of Britain's greatest contemporary composers. April 18. Dede Robertson, 94. The wife of religious broadcaster Pat Robertson and a founding board member of the Christian Broadcasting Network. April 19. Romeo Rolando Hinojosa-Smith, 93. An award-winning Texas author who began in the 1970s writing a series of novels that told the stories of people living in a fictional county along the Texas-Mexico border. April 19. Robert Morse, 90. An actor who won a Tony Award as a hilariously brash corporate climber in "How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying" and a second one a generation later as the brilliant, troubled Truman Capote in "Tru." April 20. Orrin G. Hatch, 88. The longest-serving Republican senator in history who was a fixture in Utah politics for more than four decades. April 23. Dr. Morton Mower, 89. A former Maryland-based cardiologist who helped invent an automatic implantable defibrillator that has helped countless heart patients live longer and healthier. April 25. Naomi Judd, 76. Her family harmonies with daughter Wynonna turned them into the Grammy-winning country stars The Judds. April 30. Ron Galella, 91. The photographer known for his visceral celebrity shots and his dogged pursuit of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, who sued him and won a restraining order. April 30. Ricardo Alarcón, 84. For years, he was the head of Cuba's parliament and one of the country's most prominent diplomats. April 30.  May Kathy Boudin, 78. A former Weather Underground radical who served more than two decades behind bars for her role in a fatal 1981 armored truck robbery and spent the latter part of her life helping people who had been imprisoned. May 1. Meda Mladkova, 102. A Czech arts collector, patron and historian who was an impassioned promoter of Frantisek Kupka and supported artists in communist Czechoslovakia while she was in exile behind the Iron Curtain. May 3. Norman Mineta, 90. He broke racial barriers for Asian Americans serving in high-profile government posts and ordered commercial flights grounded after the 9/11 terror attacks as the nation's federal transportation secretary. May 3. Stanislav Shushkevich, 87. He steered Belarus to independence during the breakup of the Soviet Union and served as its first leader. May 4. Mickey Gilley, 86. A country singer whose namesake Texas honky-tonk inspired the 1980 film "Urban Cowboy" and a nationwide wave of Western-themed nightspots. May 7. Ray Scott, 88. A consummate promoter who helped launch professional bass angling and became a fishing buddy to presidents while popularizing the conservation practice of catching and releasing fish. May 8. Fred Ward, 79. A veteran actor who brought a gruff tenderness to tough-guy roles in such films as "The Right Stuff," "The Player" and "Tremors." May 8. Midge Decter, 94. A leading neoconservative writer and commentator who in blunt and tenacious style helped lead the right's attack in the culture wars as she opposed the rise of feminism, affirmative action and the gay rights movement. May 9. Leonid Kravchuk, 88. He led Ukraine to independence amid the collapse of the Soviet Union and served as its first president. May 10. Bob Lanier, 73. The left-handed big man who muscled up beside the likes of Kareem Abdul-Jabbar as one of the NBA's top players of the 1970s. May 10. Shireen Abu Akleh, 51. A correspondent who became a household name synonymous with Al Jazeera's coverage of life under occupation during her more than two decades reporting in the Palestinian territories. May 11. Randy Weaver, 74. The patriarch of a family that was involved in an 11-day Idaho standoff with federal agents 30 years ago that left three people dead and helped spark the growth of antigovernment extremists. May 11. Robert C. McFarlane, 84. The former White House national security adviser was a top aide to President Ronald Reagan who pleaded guilty to charges for his role in an illegal arms-for-hostages deal known as the Iran-Contra affair. May 12. Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, 73. The United Arab Emirates' long-ailing ruler and president who oversaw much of the country's blistering economic growth and whose name was immortalized on the world's tallest building, the Burj Khalifa. May 13. Uri Savir, 69. A prominent Israeli peace negotiator and dogged believer in the need for a settlement with the Palestinians. May 13. Rosmarie Trapp, 93. Her Austrian family, the von Trapps, was made famous in the musical and beloved movie "The Sound of Music." May 13. Vangelis, 79. The Greek electronic composer who wrote the unforgettable Academy Award-winning score for the film "Chariots of Fire" and music for dozens of other movies, documentaries and TV series. May 17. Ray Liotta, 67. The actor best known for playing mobster Henry Hill in "Goodfellas" and baseball player Shoeless Joe Jackson in "Field of Dreams." May 26. Andy "Fletch" Fletcher, 60. Keyboardist for British synth pop giants Depeche Mode for more than 40 years. May 26. Cardinal Angelo Sodano, 94. A once-powerful Italian prelate who long served as the Vatican's No. 2 official but whose legacy was tarnished by his support for the pedophile founder of an influential religious order. May 27. Ronnie Hawkins, 87. A brash rockabilly star from Arkansas who became a patron of the Canadian music scene after moving north and recruiting a handful of local musicians later known as the Band. May 29. Gilberto Rodríguez Orejuela, 83. An elderly leader of the former Cali cartel that smuggled vast amounts of cocaine from Colombia to the United States in the 1980s and 1990s. May 31. Died in a U.S. prison.  June Ann Turner Cook, 95. Her cherubic baby face was known the world over as the original Gerber baby. June 3. George Lamming, 94. A giant of post-colonial literature whose novels, essays and speeches influenced readers and peers in his native Barbados and around the world. June 4. Valery Ryumin, 82. A veteran Russian cosmonaut who set space endurance records on Soviet missions, then returned to orbit after a long absence to fly on a U.S. space shuttle. June 6. Jim Seals, 80. He teamed with fellow musician "Dash" Crofts on such 1970s soft-rock hits as "Summer Breeze," "Diamond Girl" and "We May Never Pass This Way Again." June 6. Paula Rego, 87. A Portuguese-British artist who created bold, visceral works inspired by fairy tales, her homeland and her own life. June 8. Song Hae, 95. A South Korean TV presenter who was beloved for decades as the warm-humored emcee of a nationally televised singing contest. June 8. Jean-Louis Trintignant, 91. A French film legend and amateur race car driver who earned acclaim for his starring role in the Oscar-winning film "A Man and a Woman" half a century ago and went on to portray the brutality of aging in his later years. June 17. Mark Shields, 85. A political commentator and columnist who shared his insight into American politics and wit on "PBS NewsHour" for decades. June 18. Uffe Ellemann-Jensen, 80. He was Denmark's foreign minister for more than 10 years from the early 1980s and was considered one of the Nordic region's key politicians in the end phase of the Cold War. June 18. Clela Rorex, 78. A former Colorado county clerk considered a pioneer in the gay rights movement for being the first public official to issue a same-sex marriage license in 1975. June 19. Józef Walaszczyk, 102. A member of the Polish resistance who rescued dozens of Jews during the Nazi German occupation of Poland during World War II. June 20. Tony Siragusa, 55. The charismatic defensive tackle who was part of one of the most celebrated defenses in NFL history with the Baltimore Ravens. June 22. Leonardo Del Vecchio, 87. He founded eyewear empire Luxottica in a trailer and turned an everyday object into a global fashion item, becoming one of Italy's richest men in the process. June 27. Yehuda Meshi-Zahav, 62. A prominent member of Israel's ultra-Orthodox community who founded a volunteer paramedic service before his reputation came crashing down in a series of sexual abuse allegations. June 29. Hershel W. "Woody" Williams, 98. The last remaining Medal of Honor recipient from World War II, whose heroics under fire over several crucial hours at the Battle of Iwo Jima made him a legend in his native West Virginia. June 29. Sonny Barger, 83. The leather-clad fixture of 1960s counterculture and figurehead of the Hells Angels motorcycle club who was at the notorious Rolling Stones concert at Altamont Speedway. June 29.  July Bradford Freeman, 97. The last survivor of the famed Army unit featured in the World War II oral history book and miniseries "Band of Brothers." July 3. James Caan, 82. The curly-haired tough guy known to movie fans as the hotheaded Sonny Corleone of "The Godfather" and to television audiences as both the dying football player in the classic weeper "Brian's Song" and the casino boss in "Las Vegas." July 6. Shinzo Abe, 67. Japan's longest serving prime minister, he was also perhaps the most polarizing, complex politician in recent Japanese history. July 8. José Eduardo dos Santos, 79. He was once one of Africa's longest-serving rulers who during almost four decades as president of Angola fought the continent's longest civil war and turned his country into a major oil producer, as well as one of the world's poorest and most corrupt nations. July 8. Tony Sirico, 79. He played the impeccably groomed mobster Paulie Walnuts in "The Sopranos" and brought his tough-guy swagger to films including "Goodfellas." July 8. Larry Storch, 99. The rubber-faced comic whose long career in theater, movies and television was capped by his "F Troop" role as zany Corporal Agarn in the 1960s spoof of Western frontier TV shows. July 8. Luis Echeverria, 100. A former Mexican president who tried to cast himself as a progressive world leader but was blamed for some of Mexico's worst political killings of the 20th century. July 8. Ann Shulgin, 91. Together with her late husband Alexander Shulgin, she pioneered the use of psychedelic drugs in psychotherapy and co-wrote two seminal books on the subject. July 9. Ivana Trump, 73. A skier-turned-businesswoman who formed half of a publicity power couple in the 1980s as the first wife of former President Donald Trump and mother of his oldest children. July 14. Eugenio Scalfari, 98. He helped revolutionize Italian journalism with the creation of La Repubblica, a liberal daily that boldly challenged Italy's traditional newspapers. July 14. Francisco Morales Bermudez, 100. The former president was an army general credited with paving the way for Peru's return to civilian government — but also convicted abroad of involvement in dirty war crimes. July 14. William "Poogie" Hart, 77. A founder of the Grammy-winning trio the Delfonics who helped write and sang a soft lead tenor on such classic "Sound of Philadelphia" ballads as "La-La (Means I Love You)" and "Didn't I (Blow Your Mind This Time)." July 14. Taurean Blacque, 82. An Emmy-nominated actor who was known for his role as a detective on the 1980s NBC drama series "Hill Street Blues." July 21. Stuart Woods, 84. An author of more than 90 novels, many featuring the character of lawyer-investigator Stone Barrington. July 22. Tim Giago, 88. The founder of the first independently owned Native American newspaper in the United States. July 24. Diana Kennedy, 99. A tart-tongued British food writer devoted to Mexican cuisine. July 24. Paul Sorvino, 83. An imposing actor who specialized in playing crooks and cops like Paulie Cicero in "Goodfellas" and the NYPD sergeant Phil Cerreta on "Law & Order." July 25. David Trimble, 77. A former Northern Ireland first minister who won the Nobel Peace Prize for playing a key role in helping end Northern Ireland's decades of violence. July 25. James Lovelock, 103. The British environmental scientist whose influential Gaia theory sees the Earth as a living organism gravely imperiled by human activity. July 26. Tony Dow, 77. As Wally Cleaver on the sitcom "Leave It to Beaver," he helped create the popular and lasting image of the American teenager of the 1950s and 1960s. July 27. Bernard Cribbins, 93. A beloved British entertainer whose seven-decade career ranged from the bawdy "Carry On" comedies to children's television and "Doctor Who." July 27. Nichelle Nichols, 89. She broke barriers for Black women in Hollywood as communications officer Lieutenant Uhura on the original "Star Trek" television series. July 30. Pat Carroll, 95. A comedic television mainstay for decades, Emmy-winner for "Caesar's Hour" and the voice of Ursula in "The Little Mermaid." July 30. Bill Russell, 88. The NBA great who anchored a Boston Celtics dynasty that won 11 championships in 13 years — the last two as the first Black head coach in any major U.S. sport — and marched for civil rights with Martin Luther King Jr. July 31. Ayman al-Zawahri, 71. An Egyptian surgeon who became a mastermind of jihad against the West and who took over as al-Qaida leader after Osama bin Laden's death in a U.S. raid. July 31. Fidel Valdez Ramos, 94. The former Philippine president was a U.S.-trained ex-general who saw action in the Korean and Vietnam wars and played a key role in a 1986 pro-democracy uprising that ousted a dictator. July 31. August Vin Scully, 94. A Hall of Fame broadcaster who called thousands of Major League Baseball games involving the Brooklyn and Los Angeles Dodgers during his 67 years in the booth. August 2. Roy Hackett, 93. The British civil rights campaigner was a leader of a bus boycott that played a key role in ending legal racial discrimination in the U.K. August 3. Albert Woodfox, 75. A former inmate who spent decades in isolation at a Louisiana prison and then became an advocate for prison reforms after his release. August 4. Issey Miyake, 84. He built one of Japan's biggest fashion brands and was known for his boldly sculpted pleated pieces, as well as former Apple CEO Steve Jobs' black turtlenecks. August 5. Judith Durham, 79. Australia's folk music icon who achieved global fame as the lead singer of The Seekers. August 5. Bert Fields, 93. For decades, he was the go-to lawyer for Hollywood A-listers, including Tom Cruise, Michael Jackson, George Lucas and the Beatles, and a character as colorful as many of his clients. August 7. Olivia Newton-John, 73. The Grammy-winning superstar who reigned on pop, country, adult contemporary and dance charts with such hits as "Physical" and "You're the One That I Want" and won countless hearts as everyone's favorite Sandy in the blockbuster film version of "Grease." August 8. Lamont Dozier, 81. He was the middle name of the celebrated Holland-Dozier-Holland team that wrote and produced "You Can't Hurry Love," "Heat Wave" and dozens of other hits and helped make Motown an essential record company of the 1960s and beyond. August 8. Raymond Briggs, 88. A British children's author and illustrator whose creations include "The Snowman" and "Fungus the Bogeyman." August 9. Hanae Mori, 96. A designer known for her elegant signature butterfly motifs, numerous cinema fashions and the wedding gown of Japan's empress. August 11. Jean-Jacques Sempé, 89. A French cartoonist whose simple line drawings tinted with humor graced the covers of The New Yorker magazine and granted him international acclaim. August 11. Wolfgang Petersen, 81. The German filmmaker whose World War II submarine epic "Das Boot" propelled him into a blockbuster Hollywood career that included the films "In the Line of Fire," "Air Force One" and "The Perfect Storm." August 12. Anne Heche, 53. The Emmy-winning film and television actor whose dramatic Hollywood rise in the 1990s and accomplished career contrasted with personal chapters of turmoil. August 14. Rakesh Jhunjhunwala, 62. A veteran stock market investor and Indian billionaire nicknamed India's own Warren Buffett. August 14. Dr. Nafis Sadik, 92. A Pakistani doctor who championed women's health and rights and spearheaded the breakthrough action plan adopted by 179 countries at the 1994 United Nations population conference. August 14. Svika Pick, 72. A pillar of Israel's music industry who gained international attention after his song won the Eurovision Song Contest. August 14. Jerry Allison, 82. An architect of rock drumming who played and co-wrote songs with childhood friend Buddy Holly and whose future wife inspired the classic "Peggy Sue." August 22. Len Dawson, 87. The Hall of Fame quarterback whose unmistakable swagger in helping the Kansas City Chiefs to their first Super Bowl title earned him the nickname "Lenny the Cool." August 24. Kazuo Inamori, 90. He was the founder of Japanese ceramics and electronics maker Kyocera who also became a philanthropist singing the virtues of fairness and hard work. August 24. Bob LuPone, 76. As an actor, he earned a Tony Award nomination in the original run of "A Chorus Line" and played Tony Soprano's family physician, and also helped found and lead the influential off-Broadway theater company MCC Theater for nearly 40 years. August 27. Charlbi Dean, 32. The South African actor and model who had a breakout role in "Triangle of Sadness," which won this year's top prize at the Cannes Film Festival. August 29. Mikhail Gorbachev, 91. The last leader of the Soviet Union, he set out to revitalize it but ended up unleashing forces that led to the collapse of communism, the breakup of the state and the end of the Cold War. August 30.  September Barbara Ehrenreich, 81. The author, activist and self-described "myth buster" who in such notable works as "Nickel and Dimed" and "Bait and Switch" challenged conventional thinking about class, religion and the very idea of an American dream. September 1. Moon Landrieu, 92. A former New Orleans mayor whose early, lonely stand against segregationists in the Louisiana legislature launched a political career at the forefront of sweeping changes on race. September 5. Bernard Shaw, 82. CNN's chief anchor for two decades and a pioneering Black broadcast journalist best remembered for calmly reporting the beginning of the Gulf War in 1991 as missiles flew around him in Baghdad. September 7. Marsha Hunt, 104. One of the last surviving actors from Hollywood's so-called Golden Age of the 1930s and 1940s who worked with performers ranging from Laurence Olivier to Andy Griffith in a career disrupted for a time by the McCarthy-era blacklist. September 7. Lance Mackey, 52. The four-time Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race winner was one of mushing's most colorful and accomplished champions but also suffered from health and drug issues. September 7. Queen Elizabeth II, 96. Britain's longest-reigning monarch and a rock of stability across much of a turbulent century. September 8. Ramsey Lewis, 87. A renowned jazz pianist whose music entertained fans over a more than 60-year career that began with the Ramsey Lewis Trio and made him one of the country's most successful jazz musicians. September 12. Jean-Luc Godard, 91. The iconic "enfant terrible" of the French New Wave who revolutionized popular cinema in 1960 with his first feature, "Breathless," and stood for years among the film world's most influential directors. September 13. Ken Starr, 76. A former federal appellate judge and a prominent attorney whose criminal investigation of Bill Clinton led to the president's impeachment and put Starr at the center of one of the country's most polarizing debates of the 1990s. September 13. Irene Papas, 93. The Greek actor and recording artist renowned for her dramatic performances and austere beauty that earned her prominent roles in Hollywood movies, as well as in French and Italian cinema over six decades. September 14. Henry Silva, 95. A prolific character actor best known for playing villains and tough guys in "The Manchurian Candidate," "Ocean's Eleven" and other films. September 14. Dave Foreman, 74. A self-proclaimed eco-warrior who was a prominent member of the radical environmentalism movement and a co-founder of Earth First! September 19. Sylvia Wu, 106. Her famed Southern California restaurant drew Hollywood's biggest stars for four decades. September 19. Dr. Valery Polyakov, 80. The Soviet cosmonaut who set the record for the longest single stay in space. September 19. Louise Fletcher, 88. A late-blooming star whose riveting performance as the cruel and calculating Nurse Ratched in "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" set a new standard for screen villains and won her an Academy Award. September 23. Pharoah Sanders, 81. The influential tenor saxophonist revered in the jazz world for the spirituality of his work. September 24. Meredith Tax, 80. A prominent activist and writer of second-wave feminism who challenged herself, her peers and the world at large to rethink long-held ideas about gender, race and class. September 25. Youssef al-Qaradawi, 96. An Egyptian cleric who was seen as the spiritual leader of the Muslim Brotherhood and became the Islamist "voice of revolution" during the popular uprisings around the Arab world more than a decade ago. September 26. Coolio, 59. The rapper was among hip-hop's biggest names of the 1990s with hits including "Gangsta's Paradise" and "Fantastic Voyage." September 28. Kevin Locke, 68. An acclaimed Native American flute player, hoop dancer, cultural ambassador and educator. September 30.  October Antonio Inoki, 79. A popular Japanese professional wrestler and lawmaker who faced boxing great Muhammad Ali in a mixed martial arts match in 1976. October 1. Sacheen Littlefeather, 75. The actor and activist who declined Marlon Brando's 1973 Academy Award for "The Godfather" on his behalf in an indelible protest of Hollywood's portrayal of Native Americans. October 2. Jerzy Urban, 89. A spokesman for Poland's communist-era government in the 1980s who masterminded state propaganda and censorship for the regime in the final years before its collapse. October 3. Charles Fuller, 83. The Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright of the searing and acclaimed "A Soldier's Play" who often explored and exposed how social institutions can perpetuate racism. October 3. Loretta Lynn, 90. The Kentucky coal miner's daughter whose frank songs about life and love as a woman in Appalachia pulled her out of poverty and made her a pillar of country music. October 4. Judy Tenuta, 72. A brash standup who cheekily styled herself as the "Love Goddess" and toured with George Carlin as she built her career in the 1980s golden age of comedy. October 6. Jody Miller, 80. Her hit "Queen of the House" won the 1966 Grammy Award for best country performance by a woman. October 6. Toshi Ichiyanagi, 89. An avant-garde pianist and composer who studied with John Cage and went on to lead Japan's advances in experimental modern music. October 7. Nikki Finke, 68. The veteran reporter who became one of Hollywood's top journalists as founder of the entertainment trade website Deadline.com and whose sharp-tongued tenacity made her the most-feared columnist in show business. October 9. Anita Kerr, 94. A Grammy-winning singer and composer whose vocal group the Anita Kerr Singers provided the lush backdrop to the Nashville Sound. October 10. Angela Lansbury, 96. The scene-stealing British actor who kicked up her heels in the Broadway musicals "Mame" and "Gypsy" and solved endless murders as crime novelist Jessica Fletcher in the long-running TV series "Murder, She Wrote." October 11. James A. McDivitt, 93. He commanded the Apollo 9 mission testing the first complete set of equipment to go to the moon. October 13. Robbie Coltrane, 72. The baby-faced comedian and character actor whose hundreds of roles included a crime-solving psychologist on the TV series "Cracker" and the gentle half-giant Hagrid in the "Harry Potter" movies. October 14. Benjamin R. Civiletti, 87. A former U.S. attorney general who investigated President Jimmy Carter's brother while in the administration and who later became one of the nation's most expensive private attorneys. October 16. Joanna Simon, 85. An acclaimed mezzo-soprano, Emmy-winning TV correspondent and one of the three singing Simon sisters who include pop star Carly. October 19. Lucy Simon, 82. The composer who received a Tony nomination in 1991 for her work on the long-running Broadway musical "The Secret Garden." October 20. Zilli Schmidt, 98. A survivor of the Auschwitz, Lety and Ravensbrueck concentration camps who became a vocal advocate for the recognition of the Nazi genocide of Sinti and Roma. October 21. Dietrich Mateschitz, 78. The Austrian billionaire was the co-founder of energy drink company Red Bull and founder and owner of the Red Bull Formula One racing team. October 22. Ash Carter, 68. A former defense secretary who opened combat jobs to women and ended a ban on transgender people serving in the military. October 24. Leslie Jordan, 67. The Emmy-winning actor whose wry Southern drawl and versatility made him a comedy and drama standout on TV series including "Will & Grace" and "American Horror Story." October 24. Julie Powell, 49. A food writer who became an internet darling after blogging for a year about making every recipe in Julia Child's "Mastering the Art of French Cooking," leading to a book deal and a film adaptation. October 26. Jerry Lee Lewis, 87. The untamable rock 'n' roll pioneer whose outrageous talent, energy and ego collided on such definitive records as "Great Balls of Fire" and "Whole Lotta Shakin' Goin' On" and sustained a career otherwise upended by personal scandal. October 28. The Reverend Calvin O. Butts III, 73. He fought poverty and racism and skillfully navigated New York's power structure as pastor of Harlem's historic Abyssinian Baptist Church. October 28. November Takeoff, 28. A rapper best known for his work with the Grammy-nominated trio Migos. November 1. George Booth, 96. A prize-winning cartoonist for The New Yorker who with manic affection captured the timeless comedy of dogs and cats and the human beings somehow in charge of their well-being. November 1. Ibrahim Munir, 85. The former acting leader of Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood. November 4. Aaron Carter, 34. The singer-rapper who began performing as a child and had hit albums starting in his teen years. November 5. Archbishop Chrysostomos II, 81. The outspoken leader of Cyprus' Greek Orthodox Christian Church whose forays into the country's complex politics and finances fired up supporters and detractors alike. November 7. Leslie Phillips, 98. The British actor best known for his roles in the bawdy "Carry On" comedies and as the voice of the Sorting Hat in the "Harry Potter" movies. November 7. Jeff Cook, 73. The guitarist who co-founded the country group Alabama and steered them up the charts with such hits as "Song of the South" and "Dixieland Delight." November 8. Gal Costa, 77. The singer was an icon in the Tropicalia and Brazilian popular music movements and enjoyed a nearly six-decade career. November 9. Paul Schrade, 97. A labor union leader who was shot in the head during the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy and spent decades convinced that Sirhan Sirhan wasn't the killer. November 9. Kevin Conroy, 66. The prolific voice actor whose gravelly delivery on "Batman: The Animated Series" was for many Batman fans the definitive sound of the Caped Crusader. November 10. Gallagher, 76. The long-haired, smash-'em-up comedian who left a trail of laughter, anger and shattered watermelons over a decadeslong career. November. 11. John Aniston, 89. The Emmy-winning star of the daytime soap opera "Days of Our Lives" and father of actress Jennifer Aniston. November 11. Robert Clary, 96. A French-born survivor of Nazi concentration camps during World War II who played a feisty prisoner of war in the improbable 1960s sitcom "Hogan's Heroes." November 16. Carol Leigh, 71. A San Francisco activist who is credited with coining the term "sex work" and who sought for decades to improve conditions for prostitutes and others in the adult entertainment business. November 16. Jason David Frank, 49. He played the Green Power Ranger Tommy Oliver on the 1990s children's series "Mighty Morphin Power Rangers." November 19. Hebe de Bonafini, 93. She became a human rights campaigner when her two sons were arrested and disappeared under Argentina's military dictatorship. November 20. Wilko Johnson, 75. The guitarist with British blues-rock band Dr. Feelgood who had an unexpected career renaissance after being diagnosed with terminal cancer. November 21. Pablo Milanes, 79. The Latin Grammy-winning balladeer who helped found Cuba's "nueva trova" movement and toured the world as a cultural ambassador for Fidel Castro's revolution. November 22. Irene Cara, 63. The Oscar, Golden Globe and two-time Grammy-winning singer-actor who starred and sang the title cut from the 1980 hit movie "Fame" and then belted out the era-defining hit "Flashdance ... What a Feeling" from 1983's "Flashdance." November 25. Doddie Weir, 52. A former Scotland rugby player whose diagnosis with Lou Gehrig's disease led to a widely praised campaign for more research into ALS. November 26. Freddie Roman, 85. The comedian was a former dean of The Friars Club and a staple of the Catskills comedy scene. November 26. Jiang Zemin, 96. He led China out of isolation after the army crushed the Tiananmen Square pro-democracy protests in 1989 and supported economic reforms that led to a decade of explosive growth. November 30. Christine McVie, 79. The British-born Fleetwood Mac vocalist, songwriter and keyboard player whose cool, soulful contralto helped define such classics as "You Make Loving Fun," "Everywhere" and "Don't Stop." November 30.  December Gaylord Perry, 84. The Baseball Hall of Famer and two-time Cy Young Award winner was a master of the spitball who wrote a book about using pitch. December 1. Julia Reichert, 76. The Oscar-winning documentary filmmaker behind "American Factory" — often called the "godmother of American independent documentaries" — whose films explored themes of race, class and gender, often in the Midwest. December 1. Bob McGrath, 90. An actor, musician and children's author widely known for his portrayal of one of the first regular characters on the children's show "Sesame Street." December 4. Kirstie Alley, 71. A two-time Emmy winner whose roles on the TV megahit "Cheers" and in the “Look Who’s Talking” films made her one of the biggest stars in American comedy in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Dec. 5. Angelo Badalamenti, 85. The composer best known for creating otherworldly scores for many David Lynch productions, from “Blue Velvet” and “Twin Peaks” to “Mulholland Drive.” Dec. 11. Abigail Kinoiki Kekaulike Kawānanakoa, 96. She was the so-called last Hawaiian princess whose lineage included the royal family that once ruled the islands and an Irish businessman who became one of Hawaii’s largest landowners. Dec. 11. Mike Leach, 61. The gruff, pioneering and unfiltered college football coach who helped revolutionize the game with the Air Raid offense. Dec. 12. Stephen “tWitch” Boss, 40. The longtime and beloved dancing DJ on “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” and a former contestant on “So You Think You Can Dance.” Dec. 13. Shirley Eikhard, 67. The singer-songwriter who supplied songs for Cher, Emmylou Harris, Anne Murray, Chet Atkins and found lasting fame penning Bonnie Raitt‘s Grammy-winning 1991 hit “Something to Talk About.” Dec. 15. Franco Harris, 72. The Hall of Fame running back whose heads-up thinking authored the “Immaculate Reception,” considered the most iconic play in NFL history. Dec. 20. Thom Bell, 79. The Grammy-winning producer, writer and arranger who helped perfect the “Sound of Philadelphia” of the 1970s with the inventive, orchestral settings of such hits as the Spinners’ “I’ll Be Around” and the Stylistics’ “Betcha by Golly, Wow.” Dec. 22. Joseph “Jo Mersa” Marley, 31. The reggae musician and Bob Marley’s grandson followed in his family’s musical footsteps, taking the stage with his family’s band, Ziggy Marley and the Melody Makers. Dec. 26. Pelé, 82. The Brazilian king of soccer who won a record three World Cups and became one of the most commanding sports figures of the last century — as soccer's most prolific scorer with Brazilian club Santos and the Brazil national team. Dec. 29. Vivienne Westwood, 81. The influential fashion designer who played a key role in the punk movement became an outspoken advocate of fighting global warming, warning of planetary doom if climate change was not controlled. Dec. 29. Barbara Walters, 93. An intrepid interviewer, anchor and program host, she led the way as the first woman to become a TV news superstar. Dec. 30. Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI, 95. A German theologian who tried to reawaken Christianity in a secularized Europe and who will be remembered as the first pontiff in 600 years to resign. Benedict announced in 2013 that he no longer had the strength to run the 1.2 billion-strong Catholic Church. Dec. 31.