For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST. 5:15 a.m.: The Institute for the Study of War, a U.S. think tank, said in its latest Ukraine assessment that Russian and Ukrainian forces continued offensive operations near Kreminna and Svatove. Russian authorities and military leaders continue to face backlash for their responses to the Dec. 31 Ukrainian strike on a Russian base in Makiivka, Donetsk Oblast, the update said. 4:15 a.m.: Russian President Vladimir Putin on Saturday attended an Orthodox Church Christmas service by himself inside a Kremlin cathedral rather than joining other worshippers in a public celebration, Reuters reported, citing Russian media. Russia's RIA news agency said it was the first time in years that Putin had marked Christmas in Moscow rather than in the region around the capital. State television showed two live clips of Putin inside the gilded Cathedral of the Annunciation as Orthodox priests conducted the midnight service, known as the Divine Liturgy. Many Orthodox Christians celebrate Christmas on Jan. 6-7. Putin was the sole worshipper and crossed himself several times before television coverage cut away to a public service in Moscow's Christ the Saviour Cathedral. 3:14 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry said that fighting did not appear to lessen as Orthodox Christmas period began. Recently, the update said, fighting around Kremina has taken place in forests west of the town. The terrain has meant that combat has mostly involved "dismounted infantry fighting, often at short range." 2:08 a.m.: A dozen Ukrainian startups proudly showed off innovations at CES on Friday, striving to help their nation triumph economically as well as on the battlefield, Agence France-Presse reported. The contingent was welcomed to the premier consumer electronics gathering in Las Vegas, while Russian firms were not allowed due to Moscow's invasion of Ukraine and the ongoing war. The Ukrainian Startup Fund has put an emphasis on military tech, with events such as drone hackathons where engineers brainstorm ideas that can be quickly used in the war zone, said Karyna Kudriavtseva, a project manager at the fund. But the ideas are not all about war: The Ukrainian contingent included Nanit, a small robot and device company that teaches electronics and computer coding skills sorely needed for tech jobs. "When we created the startup, we were trying to focus on kids," Nanit chief executive Vladyslav Konovets told AFP. 1:07 a.m.: Two vessels left Ukrainian ports Friday carrying a total of 45,300 metric tons of grain and other food products under the Black Sea Grain Initiative, the Joint Coordination Center reported. As of Friday, the total tonnage of grain and other foodstuffs exported from the three Ukrainian ports is 16.8 million metric tons. A total of 1,250 voyages (622 inbound and 628 outbound) have been enabled so far. 12:02 a.m.: According to Ukraine's military intelligence, Russia is planning to order the mobilization of as many as 500,000 conscripts in January, The Guardian reported. Vadym Skibitsky, Ukraine’s deputy military intelligence chief, said the Ukrainian military believes the conscripts will be sent to the front lines in the east and south of the country and would be part of renewed Russian offensives in the spring and summer. Russian dictator Vladimir Putin earlier denied that Russia was planning further mobilization, saying in early December that he saw no reason for another round of military mobilization following the mobilization in the fall. But according to reports, the Kremlin has continued mobilization covertly. Some information in this report came from Agence France-Presse.