For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST. 4:26 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry said the Luhansk People’s Republic and Donetsk People’s Republic militias were formally integrated into the Russian armed forces Saturday. Both regions "will likely constitute a large political, diplomatic and financial cost for Russia which will last well beyond the current phase of the conflict," the update said. 3:33 a.m.: A married couple and their 12-year-old son were killed when a Russian shell hit a residential building in southern Ukraine on Thursday, Reuters reported, citing a presidential aide. Kyrylo Tymoshenko, deputy head of President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's office, said the building in the town of Beryslav in the Kherson region was hit as the family was preparing to celebrate the Orthodox Christian Christmas. "People were preparing to celebrate Christmas together, but a cynical blow by the Russians killed them in their own home," Tymoshenko wrote on the Telegram messaging app. Russia denies deliberately targeting civilians in what it calls its special military operation in Ukraine. 2:27 a.m.: Nobel Peace Prize laureate Ales Byalyatski went on trial in Belarus on Thursday, facing up to 12 years in jail, Reuters reported. The 60-year-old, who co-founded the Viasna human rights group, and two other representatives of the group who also went on trial watched from inside a metal cage before proceedings were adjourned until Friday. All pleaded not guilty. Byalyatski is one of the most prominent of hundreds of Belarusians who were jailed during a violent crackdown on anti-government protests that erupted in the summer of 2020. He shared the Nobel Peace Prize with Russian rights group Memorial and Ukraine's Center for Civil Liberties last October, but had been arrested in 2021 along with the two co-workers from Viasna. The trio face from seven to 12 years in jail on charges of financing protests and smuggling money. Byalyatski has not commented on the allegations publicly and his lawyer is prohibited from disclosing information about the case. 1:20 a.m.: The Kyiv Independent reported that Russian artillery hit Ukraine's Nikopol region overnight Thursday. On Telegram, Valentyn Reznichenko, governor of Dnipropetrovsk Oblast, wrote that the Marhanetska and Chervonohryhorivka communities were struck. 12:02 a.m.: Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida has been invited to visit Ukraine, the government's top spokesperson said Friday, according to Reuters. The invitation was given by the head of Ukraine's Presidential Office Andriy Yermak to Japan's ambassador to Ukraine on Wednesday, Chief Cabinet Secretary Hirokazu Matsuno told a regular news conference. "Japan stands with the citizens of Ukraine ... and takes appropriate steps as this year's G-7 chair," Matsuno said, referring to the Group of Seven nations. Next week, Kishida is set to visit G-7 member countries including France, Italy, the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States, a key diplomatic tour before Japan hosts the annual G-7 summit in May in Hiroshima. Some information in this report came from Reuters.