For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST. 5:09 a.m.: The Institute for the Study of War, a U.S. think tank, said in its latest Ukraine assessment that Russian forces conducted limited counterattacks along the Svatove-Kreminna line while Ukrainian forces reportedly continued counteroffensive operations near Kreminna. Russian forces continued offensive operations around Soledar, Bakhmut, and Avdiivka. Ukrainian partisan attacks, meanwhile, continue to divert Russian resources away from the frontline to rear areas in occupied territories. 4:13 a.m.: Russia's continued blocking of Ukraine's Black Sea ports and deliberate slowdown of ship inspections are delaying crucial grain shipments around the world, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, Linda Thomas-Greenfield, said Friday, The Kyiv Independent reported. Following Russia's Black Sea blockade of Ukraine's ports in the early days of the full-scale invasion, a U.N-backed deal in July allowed grain shipments to partially resume from some ports. Since then, Russia has been accused of deliberately holding up inspections to slow grain shipments in an effort to discredit the Black Sea Grain Initiative. Russia has also falsely alleged that grain shipments have not made it to countries that need it most. According to Greenfield, Russia’s attacks and continued blocking of some Ukrainian ports have decreased Ukraine’s food exports by about 30%. "Here’s the truth: The Initiative’s operations are not keeping pace with the strong global demand for Black Sea grain. Due to Russia’s deliberate slowdown of inspections, dozens of ships are waiting to depart. And dozens more are waiting for inspections before they can bring their grain cargo to the world," Greenfield said. 3:31 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry said Russia has deployed 10 vessels from its Black Sea Fleet, likely in response to what Russia perceives is a threat to Novorossiysk. "It is unlikely that the deployment signifies preparation for unusual maritime-launched cruise-missile strikes," the update said. "It is highly unlikely that the fleet is preparing for amphibious assault operations." 2:08 a.m.: The French and German foreign ministers called Friday on Africa to condemn Russian aggression in Ukraine, while pressing for deeper ties between the European Union and countries across the continent, Agence France-Presse reported. "We have common interests and we have expectations of our African friends," French minister Catherine Colonna told a press briefing at the African Union headquarters in Addis Ababa. The call was echoed by her German counterpart Annalena Baerbock who said that peace in Europe was under attack. "We need you, we need Africa to defend peace," Baerbock said. Ukraine and Russia are major suppliers of wheat and other cereals to Africa, and the war's impact has been felt across the continent with sharp increases in the price of fuel, grain and fertilizer. But many African nations have shown a reluctance to condemn Russia's invasion. 1:09 a.m.: 12:02 a.m.: Shakhtar Donetsk and eight Russian soccer clubs lost their appeals Friday against FIFA emergency transfer rules that let foreign players and coaches suspend their contracts during Russia's invasion of Ukraine, The Associated Press reported. In separate rulings by the Court of Arbitration for Sport, Ukraine's Shakhtar had its appeal dismissed in a case heard in December which sought $42 million compensation from FIFA. The Russian clubs, led by champion Zenit St. Petersburg, faced FIFA in November at sport's highest court. Two of the three judges who ruled in that case also heard the Shakhtar appeal. Both appeals challenged a FIFA decision last June to extend emergency transfer rules for the entire 2022-23 season that were first applied last March for the rest of that season. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press and Agence France-Presse.