For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST. 5:23 p.m.: The Institute for the Study of War, a U.S. think tank, said in its latest Ukraine assessment that Russian and Ukrainian forces reportedly continued offensive operations near Svatove and Kreminna. Russian forces continued offensive operations across the Donetsk Oblast front line. Russian sources continued to falsely claim that Russian forces are close to encircling Bakhmut. Russian forces in Zaporizhia Oblast are still likely preparing for a defensive operation in the long term despite recent claims of territorial gains. 4:10 a.m.: Russia's war in Ukraine is hitting Africans particularly hard by exacerbating food insecurity and putting an unnecessary drag on the continent's economy, U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said in Senegal's capital Dakar on Friday, according to Reuters. Yellen said ending the war would be the best thing to help the global economy, but the Treasury estimated that a Group of Seven-led price cap on Russian crude oil and refined products to limit Russia's revenues could save the 17 largest net oil-importing African countries $6 billion annually. Speaking at the start of a three-country visit to Africa, Yellen said some emerging market countries were saving even more by using the price cap to negotiate steeper discounts with Russia, and she encouraged others to follow suit. G-7 countries and Australia implemented the oil price cap Dec. 5, banning the use of Western-supplied maritime insurance, finance and other services for cargoes priced above $60 per barrel. A further cap on Russian refined petroleum products, such as diesel and fuel oil, is due to take effect Feb. 5. 3:09 a.m.: Two businessmen were charged in indictments unsealed in a U.S. court Friday with allegedly facilitating a sanctions evasion and money laundering scheme in relation to a $90 million yacht of sanctioned billionaire Russian oligarch Viktor Vekselberg, Reuters reported. The two businessmen - Vladislav Osipov, 51, a Russian national, and Richard Masters, 52, a UK national, - were charged with conspiracy to defraud the United States and to commit offenses against the United States, the U.S. Justice Department said in a statement. 2:06 a.m.: A former member of the U.S. special forces was killed this week in Ukraine, The Associated Press reported Friday, citing American officials. They said he was not fighting in an official capacity. Daniel W. Swift is a former member of the Navy SEALs who is listed in official records as having deserted since March 2019. The Navy did not provide further information about his U.S. military record, but said, "We cannot speculate as to why the former sailor was in Ukraine." The Navy said Swift was killed Wednesday. At least five other Americans are known to have died fighting in Ukraine, according to State Department statements and reports from individual families. 1:11 a.m.: Russians in St Petersburg and Moscow have been laying flowers at improvised memorials to the victims of a Russian missile attack on a nine-story apartment block in the Ukrainian city of Dnipro, Reuters reported. Ukraine's State Emergency Service said Tuesday that the attack killed 44 people, including five children, and that 20 people are unaccounted for. Search operations have ended. On Friday evening, dozens of bunches of flowers and several cuddly toys were arranged around the base of a monument to Ukrainian national poet Taras Shevchenko in central St Petersburg. One ribbon read "Forgive." "I think people who have come here have the same idea as me, to express universal human values — compassion, goodwill, grief," said a young woman who had laid flowers. A young man said that "one way or another, even in times like these, this shouldn't become normal." "They weren't combatants, they were civilians," he said. "So I came to pay my respects to the deceased."Reuters is not naming any of those who came to the monument, where witnesses said the flowers and toys were being cleared away by authorities several times a day. 12:02 a.m.: The Kremlin refused to say Friday whether Russia was preparing for strikes on the capital after images of missile defense systems on several Moscow rooftops circulated on social media, Agence France-Presse reported. The pictures appeared to show a Pantsir anti-aircraft system installed on the defense ministry building along the Moskva River, which was visible Friday on the main ministry building in the capital. A video on social media showed a Pantsir system purportedly being hoisted onto the roof of a building in the center of Moscow. Another Pantsir system was installed about 10 kilometers from President Vladimir Putin's residence in Novo-Ogaryovo outside Moscow, independent Russian-language media reported. Pantsir-S1 is an air defense system designed to protect against a variety of weapons including aircraft and ballistic and cruise missiles. Asked whether Russia was concerned that Moscow could be a target, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov referred questions to the defense ministry. Some information in this report came from Agence France-Presse, The Associated Press and Reuters.