For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST. 2:20 a.m.: Russia and Belarus have started a week-long session of staff training for the joint command of their regional grouping of forces, the Belarusian defense ministry said on Tuesday. The training is part of preparation for joint drills the two countries will hold in Russia in September, the ministry added in its statement, Reuters reported. 1:50 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 31 January 2023 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/LEQzjzWkCH🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/DpJv5iBb6b 1:32 a.m.: NATO will continue to strengthen its partnership with Japan amid the ongoing Ukraine war, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said on Tuesday during a visit to Japan, where he will meet with Prime Minister Fumio Kishida, Reuters reported. "The war in Ukraine matters for all of us, and therefore we're also very grateful for the support that Japan is providing, using also the planes and the cargo capabilities," Stoltenberg said during a brief speech after surveying the Japanese Self Defense Force's Iruma Air Base. His trip, which included a stop in South Korea, is aimed at bolstering ties with Western allies in Asia in the face of the war in Ukraine and rising competition with China. Speaking in Seoul on Monday, Stoltenberg urged South Korea to increase its military support to Ukraine, citing other countries that have changed their policy of not providing weapons to countries in conflict following Russia's invasion. 1:05 a.m.: Human Rights Watch published a new report on Tuesday on the alleged use of banned anti-personnel landmines by Ukraine during the Russian invasion. These “butterfly mines” are “about the width of a child’s cupped hands” and “cannot be disarmed; they must be detonated or destroyed.” This is exactly what makes them so dangerous. VOA’s White House correspondent Anita Powell had the full report. 12:30 a.m.: ⚡️Global News: Canada's lawmakers adopt motion to designate Wagner Group as terrorist entity. Canada's House of Commons unanimously voted on Jan. 30 to designate Russia’s mercenary Wagner Group as a terrorist entity. 12:01 a.m.: German Chancellor Olaf Scholz's bid this week to rally support for Ukraine in the face of Russia's invasion during his first South American tour fell flat, with Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva reiterating his view both parties shared blame, Reuters reported. Scholz has sought to project unity on Ukraine during his whistlestop three-day tour, thanking all three countries he has visited — Argentina, Chile and Brazil — for condemning Russia's invasion at the United Nations General Assembly last year. But the fallout of the war and harsh sanctions on Russia, such as soaring food and energy prices, have hit the region particularly hard, raising questions over the West's approach. Skepticism also abounds about interventionism and sanctions given its own past. On the final leg of his South American tour, Scholz on Monday became the first foreign leader to visit Lula since his inauguration. Europe is seeking to re-set ties with Brazil which were frosty under far-right former President Jair Bolsonaro. In a joint news conference in Brasilia, Scholz said he was delighted by Brazil's return to the world stage. But he grew stony-faced as his fellow leftist leader expounded his views on the Ukraine war. "I think Russia made the classic mistake of invading another country's territory, so Russia is wrong," Lula told reporters. "But I still think that when one won't, two won't fight. You have to want peace," he said, adding that he had heard very little from either side about finding a peaceful end to the war. Lula also said Brazil would not provide ammunition to Ukraine for German-made Gepard anti-aircraft guns, as reportedly requested by Germany. Brazil would work with other countries to help achieve peace in Ukraine, as his country has not taken sides, he said. China has an important role to play in peace talks, he added, which he will discuss on a planned visit to Beijing in March. Some information in this report came from Reuters.