Czech President-elect Petr Pavel vowed Monday to boost his country's ties with Taiwan after holding a phone call with the island's president and foreign minister. President Tsai Ing-wen congratulated Pavel on his win in Saturday's presidential run-off over the populist billionaire Andrej Babis. "I thanked her for her congratulations, and I assured her that Taiwan and the Czech Republic share the values of freedom, democracy, and human rights," Pavel said on Twitter. "We agreed on strengthening our partnership," added the former general, who served as head of NATO's military committee in 2015-2018. He said he "expressed hope to have the opportunity to meet President Tsai in person in the future." The call is likely to anger China, which is trying to keep Taipei isolated on the world stage and prevents any sign of international legitimacy for the island. Beijing claims self-ruled, democratic Taiwan as part of its territory to be seized one day, by force if necessary. The Taiwanese presidential office said the call, which Taiwan's Foreign Minister Joseph Wu also joined, lasted almost 15 minutes. "The president... acknowledged that President-elect Pavel carries on the spirit of former Czech President (Vaclav) Havel who respected democracy, freedom and human rights, under which the republic was founded, and is like-minded with Taiwan," Tsai's office said in a statement. Havel was the Czech Republic's first president in 1993-2003. Before Havel became head of state, the anti-communist dissident playwright had in 1989 led the so-called Velvet Revolution, which toppled communism in former Czechoslovakia. As the Czech Republic's fourth president, Pavel will replace pro-Chinese and pro-Russian incumbent Milos Zeman, whose final term expires in March. Zeman is currently visiting Aleksandar Vucic, the president of Serbia, which has not joined Western sanctions against Moscow following its invasion of Ukraine. In a sign that his foreign policy would vastly differ from Zeman's, Pavel spoke with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on the phone Sunday.