For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST. 10:05 a.m.: Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Russia was planning to call up more troops for a major new offensive, even as Moscow was facing some of its biggest internal criticism of the war over a strike that killed scores of fresh conscripts, according to Reuters.

Kyiv has been saying for weeks that Russian President Vladimir Putin plans to order another mass conscription drive and shut his borders to prevent men from escaping the draft.

"We have no doubt that the current masters of Russia will throw everything they have left and everyone they can round up to try to turn the tide of the war and at least delay their defeat," Zelenskyy said in his nightly video address on Tuesday. "We have to disrupt this Russian scenario. We are preparing for this. The terrorists must lose. Any attempt at their new offensive must fail."

Russian President Vladimir Putin said last month there was no need for further mobilization. But in a sign the Kremlin may now be considering one, a little known group claiming to represent widows of Russian soldiers released a call on Tuesday for Putin to order a large-scale mobilization of millions of men. The Kremlin has not commented on that appeal.

9:40 a.m.: #Ukraine garage turns beat-up cars into battlefield assets. 📷 Sergei Supinsky #AFP pic.twitter.com/9KVP1Nw1ho 9:00 a.m.: Ukraine’s efforts to increase exports under the Black Sea grain deal with Russia are currently focused on securing faster inspections of ships rather than including more ports in the initiative, a senior Ukrainian official said on Wednesday, according to Reuters.

Ukraine is a major global grain producer and exporter, but production and exports have fallen since Russia invaded the country last February and started blockading its seaports.

Three leading Ukrainian Black Sea ports in the Odesa region were unblocked in July under an initiative between Moscow and Kyiv brokered by the United Nations and Turkey. Under the deal, all ships are inspected by joint teams in the Bosphorus.

Kyiv accuses Russia of carrying out the inspections too slowly, causing weeks of delays for ships and reducing the supply of Ukrainian grain to foreign markets. Russia has denied slowing down the process.

8:25 a.m.: In Photos: The building was just 11 kilometers from the front line, within easy reach of various artillery systems. https://t.co/spIWxJKmW3 8:05 a.m.: Ukraine wants the United Nations to send peacekeepers to the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant even without a deal with Russia to establish a safety zone there, the head of Ukraine's state nuclear power company said, according to Reuters.

Ukraine has called for U.N. peacekeepers at the site since September. But the comment was the first time a Ukraine nuclear official has suggested publicly peacekeepers should be deployed in the absence of an agreement to create a safety zone at the plant, which Russia took control of soon after invading the country on February 24.

The Zaporizhzhia nuclear power station, Europe's largest, has suffered repeated shelling and power cuts, raising concerns of radioactive catastrophe. Ukraine and Russia trade blame for the shelling

Rafael Grossi, head of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), had hoped to mediate an agreement between Russia and Ukraine on a safety zone by January.
Petro Kotin, the head of Ukraine's state nuclear power company Energoatom, said the absence of a deal means the U.N. Security Council, of which Russia is a permanent member, should deploy peacekeepers.

"The problem is there is no solution (at) the level of IAEA," Kotin told Reuters in an online interview from his office in Kyiv on Tuesday. "The process is not going forward. We would propose to bring this problem to the next level," he said.

7:50 a.m.: Trolls using Arma 3 video game to spread misinformation about Russia's warClips from the game - often with "Live" or "Breaking news" banners - have frequently been used in fake videos claiming to have been captured during the Russian invasion of Ukrainehttps://t.co/oTuAuQJMZY pic.twitter.com/nbh8H7hSiH 7:35 a.m.: Explosions were reported in the vicinity of Russia’s Belbek military airfield on Ukraine’s occupied Crimean Peninsula early on Wednesday, while Moscow renewed its air attacks on Ukrainian civilian infrastructure, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty reported.

The Russia-installed head of the port city of Sevastopol, Mikhail Razvozhayev, claimed on Telegram that two drones had been shot down by Russian forces. RFE/RL cannot confirm that report.

Belbek is home to the 38th fighter regiment of the Russian Air Force. It was targeted by a drone attack in August 2022. Since then, air defenses in Crimea have been activated regularly. The occupation head of the peninsula, Sergei Aksyonov, has said drone attacks are the “main threat” in the area.

The Ukrainian General Staff reported on January 4 that Russia has launched dozens of air and missile strikes, many of which targeted civilian infrastructure in Kramatorsk, Zaporizhzhya, and Kherson. Air-raid sirens were heard in many locations across the country overnight.

In addition, the Ukrainian side reported fighting in several districts of the partially occupied eastern regions of Donetsk and Luhansk.

6:55 a.m.: Germany lagging emissions goals despite renewables boom - think tank https://t.co/SZnyyCKaiQ pic.twitter.com/mWuahoT1Y8 6:25 a.m.: German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said on Wednesday that the European Union had tried everything to stop the war in Ukraine, but that Russia's President Vladimir Putin had nothing on his mind but to destroy the neighboring country. Speaking at a conference in Portugal's capital Lisbon, Baerbock said Putin's stance was the reason why it was "important to keep up the delivery of weapons so Ukraine can defend itself and protect people's lives," Reuters reported. 6:10 a.m.: Reuters reported that Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday sent a frigate off to the Atlantic Ocean armed with hypersonic Zircon cruise missiles. In a video conference with Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu and Igor Krokhmal, commander of the frigate named "Admiral of the Fleet of the Soviet Union Gorshkov," Putin said the ship was armed with Zircon hypersonic weapons. "This time the ship is equipped with the latest hypersonic missile system — "Zircon" — which has no analogs," Putin said. "This is a hypersonic sea–based system." Shoigu said the Gorshkov would sail to the Atlantic and Indian oceans and to the Mediterranean Sea. 5:35 a.m.: The illegal and unprovoked invasion of Ukraine is continuing. The map below is the latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 04 January 2023.Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/fTJrrxpxYE🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/KLz7sHYWag  5 a.m.: Russia's defense ministry on Wednesday blamed the illegal use of mobile phones by its soldiers for a deadly Ukrainian missile strike that it said killed 89 servicemen, but Semyon Pegov, a prominent Russian war correspondent awarded the Order of Courage by Putin in late 2022, questioned the ministry's reasoning. Reuters reported that in a Telegram post, Pegov said that Ukraine could have been able to locate the troops via drones and intelligence, not necessarily through mobile phones. "The story of 'mobiles' is not very convincing," Pegov said. "I rarely say this — but this is the case when it would probably be better to remain silent, at least until the end of the investigation. As such it looks like an outright attempt to smear the blame." Pegov also said that the number of casualties would rise. "Unfortunately, their number will continue to grow. The announced data is most likely for those who were immediately identified. The list of the missing, unfortunately, is noticeably longer. I cannot disclose the sources, but I consider them reliable." 4:30 a.m.: According to Reuters, the General Staff of Ukraine's Armed Forces on Wednesday said Russia had launched seven missile strikes, 18 air strikes and more than 85 attacks from multiple-launch rocket systems in the past 24 hours on civilian infrastructure in three cities, Kramatorsk, Zaporizhzhia and Kherson. "There are casualties among the civilian population," it said. Russia denies targeting civilians. The battlefield report could not be independently verified by Reuters. 4 a.m.: Documenting Russia’s crimes against #Ukraine’s agriculture is critical to getting justice for Ukraine’s farmers. Read about how @USAID supports farmers to hold Russia to account. https://t.co/aqFW126enz pic.twitter.com/8qoYzX7qHr  3:35 a.m.: Ruslan Khasbulatov, who led a rebellion against Russia's first post-Soviet president, has died. He was 80. Khasbulatov's death was reported Tuesday by Russian state television, The Associated Press reported. Khasbulatov, an ethnic Chechen, was elected speaker of parliament of the Russian Federation shortly before the Soviet collapse. His relations with Russia's President Boris Yeltsin grew strained after the 1991 breakup of the USSR. In September 1993, Khasbulatov teamed up with Vice President Alexander Rutskoi to challenge Yeltsin's leadership. Yeltsin responded by disbanding parliament, and Khasbulatov retaliated by calling a session that declared Yeltsin's authority terminated. The crisis reached a showdown when Yeltsin sent tanks to fire on parliament and its leaders were arrested. 3 a.m.: the U.S. has spent billions to digitize its fighting forces. Ukraine is doing it on a shoestring. https://t.co/bqL7Jm6Gpi  2:32 a.m.: The United Nations estimates that a third of all Ukrainians have been forced out of their homes since Russia invaded last February. They have been welcomed in countries all over Europe, but, as inflation rises and temperatures drop, it is becoming more and more difficult for their hosts and helpers. In a new report, The Washington Post provided snapshots of the connections between refugees and those devoted to helping them — and speculated on the future ahead as they move forward into the dead of winter. 2 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 04 January 2023 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/sTvI8nDoqa🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/hxvMq4spju 1:30 a.m.: Drone advances in Ukraine have accelerated a technology trend that could soon bring the world’s first fully autonomous robots to the battlefield and inaugurate a new age of warfare, The Associated Press reported. Experts say it may be only a matter of time before either Russia or Ukraine, or both, deploy drones programmed to find and attack targets without help from humans. That would mark a revolution in military technology as profound as the introduction of the machine gun. Ukraine already has semi-autonomous drones endowed with artificial intelligence. Russia also claims to possess AI weaponry. But there are no confirmed instances of a nation putting into combat drones that have killed entirely on their own. 1 a.m.: #Putin approved a series of instructions for #Russian agencies and high-level officials on January 2 likely to address criticisms of the Kremlin’s treatment of military personnel and portray the #Kremlin as an involved war-time apparatus.https://t.co/8p48dNlO3F pic.twitter.com/OS3sZKLwek  12:30 a.m.: The Joint Coordination Center reported that 10 vessels left Ukrainian ports from December 31, 2022, to January 3, 2023, carrying a total of 467,090 metric tons of grain and other food products under the Black Sea Grain Initiative. There are 35 vessels waiting for inspection: eight of them waiting to move into Ukrainian ports, and 27 of them are loaded with cargo waiting to sail to their global destinations. On Wednesday, the JCC is planning to deploy three joint inspection teams to conduct 11 inspections, seven on inbound vessels and four on outbound. As of 3 January, the total tonnage of grain and other foodstuffs exported from the three Ukrainian ports is 16,432,665 metric tons. A total of 1,232 voyages (612 inbound and 620 outbound) have been enabled so far. 12:01 a.m.: New regulations in Poland require specialized police to go through training with grenade launchers, The Associated Press reported. Local media interpret the decision as a reaction to the Polish police chief’s accidental detonation of such a weapon that had been a gift from Ukraine. The updated instructions for weapons training took effect January 1. They were approved by the interior minister just two days after a grenade launcher — a gift from Ukraine officials — exploded unexpectedly last month as the police chief was moving it in his office. He and another person were slightly injured. The police chief said he had been assured the gifted launcher was free of explosives. Some politicians argued that police should be made better acquainted with such weapons. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press and Reuters.