For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST. 8:15 a.m.: Russian President Vladimir Putin is open to contacts with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz though has no phone call scheduled with him, a Kremlin spokesman told the state RIA Novosti news agency on Sunday. Germany, previously the West's main holdout on providing modern battle tanks to Ukraine to help it fight off Russia's invasion, said last week it would send 14 of its Leopard 2 tanks to Kyiv and also approve Leopard shipments by allied European countries. The announcement, followed shortly after a U.S. pledge of M1 Abrams tanks to Kyiv, which infuriated the Kremlin. "For now, there are no agreed talks (with Scholz) in the schedule. Putin has been and remains open to contacts," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov was quoted as saying by RIA Novosti. Scholz was quoted by the Berlin daily Tagesspiegel in an interview published on Sunday as saying, "I will also speak to Putin again – because it is necessary to speak.” He added: “The onus is on Putin to withdraw troops from Ukraine to end this horrendous, senseless war that has cost hundreds of thousands of lives already.” Spokespeople for Scholz could not be immediately reached for comment. The German Chancellor is currently on a visit to South America, Reuters reports. 7:45 a.m.: German arms-maker Rheinmetall is ready to greatly increase the output of tank and artillery munitions to meet strong demand in Ukraine and the West. It may also start producing HIMARS multiple rocket launchers in Germany, CEO Armin Papperger told Reuters. He spoke days before Germany's defense industry bosses meeting with new defense minister Boris Pistorius for the first time. Pistorius plans to discuss how to speed up weapons procurement and boost ammunitions supplies in the long term after almost a year of arms donations to Ukraine has depleted the German military stocks. Rheinmetall RHMG.DE makes a range of defense products but is probably most famous for manufacturing the 120mm gun of the Leopard 2 tank. "We can produce 240,000 rounds of tank ammunition (120mm) per year, which is more than the entire world needs," Papperger said in an interview with Reuters. The capacity for the production of 155mm artillery rounds can be ramped up to 450,000 to 500,000 per year, he added, which would make Rheinmetall the biggest producer for both kinds of ammunition. Demand for these munitions has soared since Russia's invasion of Ukraine last February, not only due to their massive use on the battlefield but also as Western militaries backfill their own stocks, bracing for what they see as a heightened threat from Moscow. Papperger said a new production line for medium caliber ammunition, used by German-built Gepard anti-aircraft tanks in Ukraine for example, would go live by mid-year. 5:19 a.m.: North Korea on Sunday criticized for a second day a U.S. decision to send tanks to Ukraine, calling it a "criminal act against humanity" aimed at perpetuating an unstable international situation, Reuters reported. Washington's allegations that North Korea has provided arms to Russia are a "baseless" effort to justify its own military aid to Ukraine, Kwon Chung-keun, director of U.S. affairs at North Korea's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said in a statement carried by state news agency KCNA. "The United States' attempt to slam offensive armed equipment such as the main tank, into Ukraine, ignoring the legitimate concerns and condemnation of the international community, is a criminal act against humanity aimed at perpetuating the unstable international situation," the statement said. The baseless claims of North Korea-Russia arms deals are an "unacceptable and a grave provocation that must be responded to," Kwon added. On Saturday, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's powerful sister, Kim Yo Jong, denounced U.S. pledges of battle tanks to Ukraine, claiming Washington was "further crossing the red line" to win hegemony by proxy war, KCNA reported. 4:13 a.m.: The Institute for the Study of War, a U.S. think tank, said in its latest Ukraine assessment that Russian forces reportedly continued limited counterattacks to regain lost positions along the Svatove-Kreminna line. Russian forces also continued offensive operations in the Bakhmut and Avdiivka-Donetsk City areas. Russian forces continued a localized offensive near Vuhledar in western Donetsk Oblast. Ukrainian forces, meanwhile, continued to strike Russian rear areas in Luhansk Oblast. 3:10 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry had details about Russia's plans to include military training in secondary schools' curriculum. The training begins Sept. 1 and includes a course called "Basics of Life Safety." As part of it, students will be trained with assault rifles and hand grenades. "The initiatives highlight the increasingly militarized atmosphere in wartime Russia," the update said, "as well as being a (likely deliberate) evocation of the Soviet Union: similar training was mandatory in schools up to 1993." 2:07 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Saturday redoubled his efforts to stop Russian athletes from participating the 2024 Olympics, saying they would try to justify the war against Ukraine if allowed to compete. On Friday he said Ukraine would launch an international campaign to keep Russia out of the summer games, which will be held in Paris. "If Russian athletes appear at international competitions, it is only a matter of time before they start justifying Russia's aggression and using the symbols of terror," he said in a Saturday evening video address. Ukraine, he said, had written to major international sports federations asking them to clarify their position on what he called the International Olympic Committee's desire to "open up sports to the propaganda influence of the terrorist state." 1:10 a.m.: Expedited talks are under way among Kyiv and its allies about Ukraine's requests for long-range missiles, a top aide to President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Saturday. Ukraine has won promises of Western battle tanks and is seeking fighter jets to push back against Russian and pro-Moscow forces. "To drastically reduce the Russian army's key weapon — the artillery they use today on the front lines — we need missiles that will destroy their depots," presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak told Ukraine's Freedom television network. He said on the Russian-occupied Crimean Peninsula there were more than 100 artillery warehouses. "Therefore, firstly, negotiations are already under way. Secondly, negotiations are proceeding at an accelerated pace," he said without giving details. Zelenskyy, speaking separately, said Ukraine wanted to preempt Russian attacks on Ukrainian urban areas and civilians. Zelenskyy said Ukraine needed the U.S.-made ATACMS missile, which has a range of 297 kilometers. Washington has so far declined to provide the weapon. Earlier in the day, the Ukrainian air force denied a newspaper report that it intended to get 24 fighter jets from allies, saying talks were continuing, Ukraine's Babel online outlet said. 12:02 a.m.: Reuters reported that Ukraine has imposed sanctions against 182 Russian and Belarusian companies, plus three individuals. "Their assets in Ukraine are blocked, their properties will be used for our defense," Zelenskyy said in a video address. Some information in this report came from Agence France-Presse, The Associated Press and Reuters.