For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST. 1:05 p.m.: VIDEO: With dreams of becoming an Olympic champion, Eva Evstratenko, 9, is one of those young Ukrainian gymnasts whose ambitions are being constrained by the war. pic.twitter.com/GcrIaAS8y6 12:30 p.m.: A court in Russia's southwestern city of Rostov-on-Don has sentenced Crimean Tatar activist and religious cleric Raif Fevziyev to 17 years in prison on charges of plotting to seize power and organizing the activities of a terrorist group, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty reported.

Fevziyev, an imam of a Muslim community in Crimea, has rejected all of the charges, saying the case against him was fabricated by Russian police.He was arrested along with four other Crimean Tatar activists by Russia-installed police in Ukraine's Moscow-annexed Crimean peninsula last August after their homes were searched.

Ukrainian officials condemned the arrests of Fevziyev and four other Crimean Tatars at the time with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy calling the move "a blatant violation of human rights."

On January 11, the same court in Rostov-on-Don sentenced five Crimean Tatars to lengthy prison terms on charges of being members of the Hizb ut-Tahrir religious group that is banned in Russia but is legal in Ukraine.

Rights groups and Western governments have denounced what they describe as a campaign of repression by the Russian-imposed authorities in Crimea who are targeting members of the Turkic-speaking Crimean Tatar community and others who have spoken out against Moscow's takeover of the peninsula. 12:10 p.m.: People, parcels, and a dog: there is a volunteer connecting Moldova and Ukraine. Bogdan Ovsienco, a businessman from Chisinau, Moldova, has been volunteering since the beginning of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. He goes to Ukraine several times a week and carries passengers and parcels in both directions. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has this story. 11:35 a.m.: A congress of Ukrainian judges on Thursday appointed the last of eight new members to an important judicial oversight body, a move experts and officials have said is critical to Kyiv's push to reform its judiciary, Reuters reported.

The European Union made cleaning up the courts one of its main recommendations when it offered Ukraine the status of candidate member last June, four months after Russia's invasion.

The selection of the new members to the High Council of Justice (HCJ) means the body can resume its work overseeing the appointment, dismissal and disciplining of judges. 11:05 a.m.: VIDEO: 🇺🇦 'I need to do my job,' says doctor in shell-ridden eastern UkraineElena Molchanova is one of only five doctors left in the city of #Bakhmut, which lies in ruins after months of Russian attacks. "I am a little afraid, but it is okay. I need to do my job." pic.twitter.com/w981m1LQPg 10:40 a.m.: President Vladimir Putin's defense minister has appointed Russia's most senior general, Chief of the General Staff Valery Gerasimov, 67, to lead its war in Ukraine, the most dramatic in a series of senior command changes since Russia invaded in February, Reuters reported.

Many of the nationalist war bloggers who have license from the Kremlin to criticize the conduct of the war have blamed Gerasimov for the fact that a superpower military - supposedly modernized and expensively re-equipped in the last 15 years - has failed so signally to subjugate its much smaller neighbor.

Critics in Ukraine, the West and even inside Russia cast the Russian armed forces as naive, poorly prepared and equipped, slow to react, and riven by disparate and often distant command structures.

Supporters of the defense ministry say Russia often performs poorly at the start of wars, and that many of the problems that have become apparent in supply, technology and command over the past 10 months have been or are being resolved.

Gerasimov played key roles in Russia's seizure of Crimea from Ukraine in 2014 and in Russia's game-changing military support for President Bashar al-Assad in the Syrian Civil War. The U.S. State Department sanctioned him the day after the invasion of Ukraine, saying he was one of three senior Russians alongside Putin who were directly responsible for the war.

By putting Gerasimov in direct command, Putin can send a signal to the West about his determination to win the war, reinforce the standing of the army relative to Prigozhin and Kadyrov's militias and, not least, make his top general more accountable for the day-to-day conduct of the invasion.

10:00 a.m.: Ukrainian servicemen from the 28th brigade of the Armed Forces say the situation on the frontline in Donetsk is becoming increasingly difficult, with Russian forces shelling every day. https://t.co/nVqdEzQETs pic.twitter.com/3OeCjDRxlR 9:35 a.m.: The British government said on Thursday that a small number of people who were granted so-called "golden visas" for millionaire investors might have obtained their wealth through corruption or organized crime, Reuters reported. The government last year scrapped the visas, which offered a route to residency for those investing at least 2 million pounds ($2.43 million), days before the invasion of Ukraine amid government concerns about the inflow of illicit Russian money.

The government first commissioned the visa's review in 2018 after the poisoning of former Russian double agent Sergei Skripal in Britain. After keeping the findings secret for years, the government released details of that investigation to parliament on Thursday.

"The review of cases identified a small minority of individuals connected to the Tier 1 (Investor) visa route that were potentially at high risk of having obtained wealth through corruption or other illicit financial activity, and/or being engaged in serious and organized crime," Home Secretary Suella Braverman said in a written statement to parliament.

The flow of tens of billions of pounds in investment helped London preserve its position as one of the world's top financial capitals. But the government has been concerned by the source of some of the wealth, particularly in the aftermath of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

9:10 a.m.: Russia’s war in Ukraine has wrought a devastating toll on civilians and shattered civilian life in much of the country, Human Rights Watch said Thursday in its World Report 2023. “Russian forces have committed apparent war crimes and crimes against humanity, including torture, summary executions, and enforced disappearances. They have carried out indiscriminate attacks on civilian areas and repeatedly targeted energy infrastructure, leaving millions of civilians periodically without electricity, water, and heat as winter temperatures plunged,” Human Rights Watch said. Ukraine: Russian Invasion Causing Widespread Suffering for Civilians https://t.co/Rg5q2GXyeT 8:45 a.m.: Widespread opposition to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine demonstrates the strength of a unified response against human rights abuses, and there are signs that power is shifting as people take to the streets to demonstrate their dissatisfaction in Iran, China and elsewhere, a leading rights group said Thursday, according to The Associated Press.

A “litany of human rights crises” emerged in 2022, but the year also presented new opportunities to strengthen protections against violations, Human Rights Watch said in its annual world report on human rights conditions in more than 100 countries and territories.

“After years of piecemeal and often half-hearted efforts on behalf of civilians under threat in places including Yemen, Afghanistan, and South Sudan, the world’s mobilization around Ukraine reminds us of the extraordinary potential when governments realize their human rights responsibilities on a global scale,” the group’s acting executive director, Tirana Hassan, said in the preface to the 712-page report.

8:15 a.m.: ⚡️ Ukrenergo: ‘Significant’ power deficit persists in Ukraine.Ukraine’s energy system continues to experience a “significant” power deficit as of Jan. 12, as power consumption has spiked due to colder weather, Ukraine’s state grid operator Ukrenergo reported. 7:50 a.m.: A Russian-installed official in Ukraine's Donetsk region said on Thursday that "pockets of resistance" remained in the Ukrainian town of Soledar, undermining claims that the town had been taken by Russian forces, Reuters reported.

Yevgeniy Prigozhin, the powerful head of the Wagner private military group whose soldiers are fighting to capture the town, had said on Wednesday that Soledar was under the "complete control" of Russian forces.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has ridiculed those claims, and independent analysts say fighting is likely ongoing in the town.

"At the moment, there are still some small pockets of resistance in Soledar," Andrei Bayevsky, a military figure and Russian-installed local politician, said in an online broadcast.

7:30 a.m.: The U.N. Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said Thursday that aid workers are reaching Ukrainians living near the front lines with lifesaving assistance. Volunteers in Kupiansk, #Kharkiv region, deliver lifesaving assistance to people living in front-line communities, under constant shelling, with support from humanitarian organizations @WFP, @IOMUkraine, @UNICEF_UA, @UNHCRUkraine and @WHOUkraine. Ukrainian volunteers save lives. pic.twitter.com/wpy2unu1j8 7:10 a.m.: Russia could raise the upper age limit for citizens to be conscripted into the armed forces as soon as this spring as part of Moscow's plans to boost the number of Russian troops by 30%, Reuters reported, quoting a senior lawmaker.

President Vladimir Putin gave his backing in December to defense ministry proposals to raise the age range for mandatory military service to cover Russian citizens aged 21-30, rather than the current range of 18-27.

The chairman of the Russian parliament's defense committee, Andrei Kartapolov, said in an interview with the official parliamentary newspaper that Russia could raise the upper age limit for conscription to 30 for this year's spring draft. But only after a one-to-three year "transition period" would the lower limit be raised from 18 to 21 years, Kartapolov said.

6:55 a.m.: In Ukraine, energy is hope and power workers won’t let it die. @AP got rare access to a Ukrainian power plant that has been struck by Russian bombardments. Determined to keep lights on and homes heated, its workers are fighting to keep it functioning. https://t.co/F8zgt7dXEx pic.twitter.com/TwTJ5SAOOa 6:40 a.m.: The scale of alleged torture and detentions by Russian forces in Kherson is beginning to emerge, Reuters reported Thursday.

Oksana Minenko, a 44-year-old accountant who lives in the Ukrainian city of Kherson, said she was repeatedly detained and tortured by occupying Russian forces.

Her husband, a Ukrainian soldier, died defending Kherson’s Antonivskyi bridge on the first day of full-scale war, she said. During several interrogations in the spring, Russian forces submerged her hands in boiling water, pulled out her fingernails and beat her in the face with rifle butts so badly she needed plastic surgery, according to Minenko.

Reuters wasn’t able to independently corroborate individual accounts shared by Minenko and other Kherson residents but they fit with what Ukrainian authorities and international human rights specialists have said about conditions and treatment during detention, including detainees being blindfolded and bound, subject to beatings and electric shocks and injuries, including severe bruising and broken bones, forced nudity and other forms of sexual violence.

The Kremlin and Russia’s defense ministry didn’t respond to Reuters’ questions, including about alleged torture and unlawful detentions. Moscow, which has said it is conducting a “special military operation" in Ukraine, has denied committing war crimes or targeting civilians. 6:15 a.m.: Map showing the situation in #Ukraine️ as of January 12 at 0800 GMT #AFPgraphics @AFP pic.twitter.com/zAiy4CtkPs 6 a.m.: Ukraine said Thursday its forces were fighting to retain control of Soledar, a town in the eastern Donetsk region, but the situation remained "difficult." "The fiercest and heaviest fighting is continuing today in the area of Soledar," Deputy Defense Minister Ganna Malyar told reporters, Agence France-Presse reported. "Despite the difficult situation, Ukrainian soldiers are fighting stubbornly," she added. Russian mercenary group Wagner claimed earlier this week its forces had captured Soledar, but the defense ministry in Moscow said fighting was ongoing and Ukraine denied any full takeover. Both sides have conceded heavy losses in the fight for Soledar and the nearby town of Bakhmut, a key military objective for Russia's troops. Malyar claimed during the press conference Thursday that Russian forces were "suffering heavy losses". Russia wants to gain control of the entire eastern Donetsk region which it claimed to have annexed last year, despite not having complete military control over it. Its capture of Soledar would allow Russia to sell a much-needed victory back home after months of humiliating setbacks. But observers of the conflict have said Soledar itself — a salt mining town with an estimated pre-war population of over 10,000 people — is of little strategic importance. Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhaylo Podolyak said this week that Bakhmut — and with it Soledar — could be a launching pad to retake the city of Donetsk, a Russian stronghold since 2014. 5:40 a.m.: This video published by the Polish President's Office shows how Ukrainians greeted Andrzej Duda in the center of Lviv during his visit on Jan. 11. pic.twitter.com/iitovPc36d 5:15 a.m.: Russia questioned on Thursday whether Sweden had "something to hide" over explosions that damaged the Nord Stream gas pipelines last year, as it slammed Stockholm for not sharing information in the ongoing investigations into the blasts. Swedish and Danish authorities are investigating four holes in the Nord Stream 1 and 2 pipelines which link Russia and Germany via the Baltic Sea and have become a flashpoint in the Ukraine crisis. According to Reuters, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said Sweden's refusal to engage with Russian prosecutors was "confusing" and said Moscow had a right to know the details of the probe into the explosions, which occurred last September. Moscow proposed to Stockholm the establishment of a joint investigation into the blasts, which could see three of the four lines of the Nord Stream 1 and 2 gas projects put permanently out of use. But both Sweden and Denmark have rejected the idea of Russian participation. At a briefing in Moscow on Thursday, Zakharova suggested there were reasons for that decision. "Maybe Russian investigators, conducting an objective investigation, could come to an inconvenient conclusion... about who conducted this act of sabotage, terrorism. About who thought it up, and who carried it out," she told reporters. Zakharova said Sweden was "concealing" facts about what it had discovered in the investigation, suggesting that "the Swedish authorities have something to hide". Sweden and other European investigators say the attacks were carried out on purpose, but they have not said who they think was responsible. Moscow, without providing evidence, has blamed the explosions on Western sabotage. Construction of Nord Stream 2, designed to carry Russian gas to Germany, was completed in September 2021, but was never put into operation after Berlin shelved certification just days before Moscow sent its troops into Ukraine in February. 4:55 a.m.: Part of missile found in Zaporizhzhia after a Russian missile attack overnight into Jan 12 that damaged detached homes and infrastructure facilitiesNo one was injured, according to the oblast administration's preliminary data.📷https://t.co/CmAAuKet3y https://t.co/Rt0PwdHreK pic.twitter.com/lXXGrBWoYS 4:40 a.m.: Russia is building up its forces in Ukraine but Ukrainian forces are holding out in fierce fighting for control of the eastern town of Soledar, Deputy Defense Minister Hanna Malyar said on Thursday, Reuters reported. She told a news briefing that the number of Russian military units in Ukraine had risen to 280 from 250 a week earlier. "They (the Russians) are moving over their own corpses," Malyar said of the fighting for Soledar. "Russia is driving its own people to the slaughter by the thousands, but we are holding on." 4 a.m.: Russian Human Rights Commissioner Tatiana Moskalkova said on Thursday that both Moscow and Kyiv are interested in future contacts between their rights commissioners, Reuters cited the TASS news agency as reporting. Following a meeting this week in Turkey with her Ukrainian counterpart, Dmytro Lubinets, Moskalkova said she believed Ukraine had adopted a pragmatic approach to ongoing discussions between the two sides, TASS reported. At that meeting, the pair agreed the latest prisoner exchange between the two sides, with each releasing another 40 captured fighters. "They have taken a pragmatic approach and are ready for dialog," Moskalkova said on Thursday, speaking of her Ukrainian counterparts. "We already have concrete results on the search for missing people, and [the] return of children to their families. I hope the dialog is continued. The most important thing is that it should not be politicized, but based exclusively on humanitarian and human rights principles," TASS quoted her as saying. 3:45 a.m.: ⚡️ Governor: Russian attacks on Kherson Oblast kill 1 person, injure 5 over past day.Russian forces shelled Kherson Oblast 90 times on Jan. 11, killing one person and injuring five, reported Kherson Oblast Governor Yaroslav Yanushevych. 3:30 a.m.: On the face of it, the answer is obvious. But the debate is somewhat philosophical https://t.co/N5jM1buDu6 3:10 a.m.: "Each additional watt of electricity they manage to wring into the power grid defies Russian President Vladimir Putin's nearly 11-month invasion," The Associated Press reported about Ukrainian power plant workers, who are keeping the nation’s power grid working through "bravery, dedication, ingenuity and dwindling stocks of spare parts." 2:50 a.m.: #SatelliteImagery from January 7, 2023, reveals thousands of bomb craters in fields and along roads in and around the town of #Bakhmut, #Ukraine. pic.twitter.com/iAwSLzvX4b 2:30 a.m.: Reuters reported that Russia's Gazprom said it would ship 35.5 million cubic meters of gas to Europe via Ukraine on Thursday, in line with similar levels reported in January 2023, but around 15% down on daily shipments seen in the final months of 2022. 2 a.m.: Russian cyberattacks against Ukraine are increasingly going after civilian services such as electricity and internet, making the situation even worse for Ukrainians as the conflict nears its one-year anniversary.https://t.co/QSlQIB2OUg 1:30 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 12 January 2023 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/YKWMG9VA4c🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/7mHRspwurz 1:10 a.m.: The past year has seen a litany of human rights crises across the world, from Ukraine to China to Afghanistan, Human Rights Watch says in its latest annual report, released Thursday. The authors also say, however, that new champions of human rights have emerged. Henry Ridgwell reports: No media source currently available 12:30 a.m.: The #Russian Ministry of Defense (MoD) announced today that Chief of the General Staff Army General Valery #Gerasimov will take over as theater commander as part of a major reshuffle of the Russian command structure for the war in #Ukraine.https://t.co/ZfwKxK3Ylc pic.twitter.com/DjwCruAaev 12:01 a.m.: Forces from Russia's Wagner Group on Wednesday found the body of one of two British voluntary aid workers reported missing in eastern Ukraine, Reuters reported, citing the private military firm. The firm did not mention the name of the dead man but said documents belonging to both Britons had been found on his body. A photo posted alongside the statement appeared to show passports bearing the names of Andrew Bagshaw and Christopher Parry, the two missing workers. Ukrainian police said on Monday they were looking for the pair who went missing in east Ukraine, the scene of heavy fighting between Ukrainian and Russian forces. Ukrainian police said the two left the city of Kramatorsk for the town of Soledar on Friday morning and were reported missing on Saturday evening after contact with them was lost. Some information in this report came from Reuters, Agence France-Presse and The Associated Press.