The Republican majority in the newly elected U.S. House of Representatives is trying again Wednesday to select a speaker in the chamber, a day after 20 archconservatives scuttled Congressman Kevin McCarthy's bid for the job in three separate votes, claiming he was not beholden enough to the conservative cause. Former President Donald Trump, who has called some of the dissidents to voice his support for the lawmaker he has described as "My Kevin," issued a public statement of support for the California lawmaker on Wednesday morning, hours ahead of the new vote. "It's now time for all of our great Republican House members to vote for Kevin, close the deal, take the victory," Trump said on his social media network. He warned the slim Republican majority in the 118th session of Congress, "Republicans, do not turn a great triumph into a giant & embarrassing defeat. It's time to celebrate, you deserve it. Kevin McCarthy will do a good job, and maybe even a great job – just watch!" Whether Trump's new statement would sway any of McCarthy's opponents was unclear. The former president, who already has announced his 2024 campaign to try to reclaim the White House, has for weeks voiced his support for McCarthy, a House member for 16 years and the Republican minority leader in the congressional session that ended at noon Tuesday. No media source currently available The three votes Tuesday marked the first time in 100 years that neither a Republican nor Democrat won the House speakership on the first round of voting to become the leader of the 435-member chamber. Republicans will hold a narrow 222-212 majority in the House, with one current vacancy, requiring McCarthy to win at least 218 votes to claim the speakership. Under a provision in the U.S. Constitution, he also would become second in the line of succession to the U.S. presidency. But 19 Republicans, many of them in recent weeks expressing the view that McCarthy was not conservative enough to lead House Republicans, voted for other Republican lawmakers in the first round of voting, including Representatives Andy Biggs of Arizona and Jim Jordan of Ohio, two vocal opponents of Democratic President Joe Biden. In the second round of voting, 19 dissident Republicans voted for Jordan, even though he nominated McCarthy as his choice to lead the majority Republican caucus in the new two-year House session. On the third round, another Republican switched his vote to Jordan after voting for McCarthy on the first two ballots. Democratic Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, with all 212 Democrats voting for him, led the voting for the speakership although he has no chance of winning the speakership because no Republicans plan to vote for him to help him reach the 218 majority. On the third ballot, 202 Republicans voted for McCarthy, 16 short of the 218 he needed. The 57-year-old McCarthy, a staunch conservative himself, has sought for years to lead the House. Over the past several weeks, he has met repeatedly with his Republican foes to secure their support for his speakership bid. McCarthy offered to change the House's governing rules in several ways, including to permit snap votes to declare the speakership vacant and select someone else if they did not like his policy stances or how the party caucus was conducting its promised investigations of Biden and his administration. Whoever the Republicans eventually elect, McCarthy or someone else, will replace outgoing Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who remains a House member and cast her votes for Jeffries. In his statement, Trump disparaged Pelosi, a vocal critic of him. He said another reason for House Republicans to vote for McCarthy was so they can "watch crazy Nancy Pelosi fly back home to a very broken California, the only speaker in U.S. history to have lost [political control of] the House twice!" But Pelosi has said she plans to keep her seat in Congress. Democrats, who have been locked in a 50-50 split with Republicans in the Senate the past two years, gained an edge in the nationwide congressional elections nearly two months ago and will hold a 50-49 majority in the upper chamber, even after onetime Democratic Senator Kyrsten Sinema announced she is now an independent but would not change her voting philosophy. She usually has voted with the Democratic lawmakers and Biden. Choosing a House speaker occurs even before representatives are sworn into office for their two-year terms. Lawmakers called out the name of their choice for House speaker from the floor of the chamber, and the same scenario will play out in the fourth round of voting, and possibly beyond that.