For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia's war on Ukraine. All times EST. 4:04 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry said that over the past two weeks, Russian casualties are at their highest rate since the invasion of Ukraine began. There are a number of reasons for this, the update said, including inexperienced soldiers and a lack of resources. 3:09 a.m.: Ukraine's forces held the front lines in Donetsk, including around town of Bakhmut, with the fiercest battles raging for the cities of Vuhledar and Maryinka, Kyiv's top military commander said Saturday. Valeriy Zaluzhnyi, commander-in-chief of Ukraine's Armed Forces, said Russia carries out about 50 attacks daily in Donetsk, a region in Ukraine's southeast that Moscow has been trying to occupy fully. "Fierce fighting continues in the area of Vuhledar and Maryinka," Zaluzhnyi said in a Telegram message after a call with U.S. General Mark Milley. "We reliably hold the defense. In some areas of the front, we have managed to regain previously lost positions and gained a foothold." Zaluzhnyi did not specify where the gains were. He added that Ukraine continues to hold Bakhmut, trying to "stabilize" the front line around the town. The head of Russia's Wagner mercenary group said Saturday that his forces are facing fierce resistance around Bakhmut from Ukrainian defenders. Reuters is unable to verify battlefield reports. 2:09 a.m.: Russia appears to be draining an enormous reservoir in Ukraine, imperiling drinking water, agricultural production and safety at Europe's largest nuclear plant, NPR reported, citing satellite data it obtained. Since early November 2022, water has been gushing out of the Kakhovka Reservoir, in southern Ukraine, through sluice gates at a critical hydroelectric power plant controlled by Russian forces. As a result, the water level at the reservoir has fallen to its lowest point in three decades. Separate images provided by the commercial companies Planet and Maxar show water pouring through the gates and shoreline along the giant reservoir emerging as a result of the rapidly falling water levels. At stake is drinking water for hundreds of thousands of residents, irrigation for nearly half-a-million acres of farmland, and the cooling system at the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant. Late last week, the International Atomic Energy Agency said it was aware of the potential risk posed by dropping water levels at the reservoir. 1:04 a.m.: "From the patriotic standpoint, we are not afraid, of course," said Serhiy Yarmak, the mayor of the town of Hulyaypole on the southern Ukrainian steppe, standing in front of what remains of the city council garage — a pile of rubble covered with fresh snow. The brick building was destroyed in a missile strike that killed his deputy and a local utility company director in October, he told Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. "But, of course, in reality, everybody is worried that soon we might become another Bakhmut," he added, referring to a city in the eastern Donbas region where Ukrainian forces have held out for months against a relentless Russian onslaught in some of the fiercest fighting in Russia’s war on Ukraine. As Ukraine braces for a renewed offensive in the Donbas, the southern front remains relatively stable, despite daily barrages of artillery fire and an intense Russian bombardment of energy infrastructure in the city of Zaporizhzhia on Feb. 10. 12:02 a.m.: WNBA star Brittany Griner attended the WM Phoenix Open golf tournament Saturday in her second public appearance since her release from a Russian prison, The Associated Press reported. Last month in her first appearance, Griner was at the Martin Luther King Jr. march in downtown Phoenix. Griner is skipping the USA Basketball training camp in Minnesota so she can be with her wife and recover from her time in jail in Russia. She was traded in a dramatic prisoner swap in December. Griner has said she'll play for the Phoenix Mercury again this season, although she's still an unsigned free agent. She hasn't talked about her international future and potentially playing in the Olympics next year in Paris. Some information in this report came from The Associated Press.