For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia's war on Ukraine. All times EST. 9:05 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said on Friday there should be no taboo on supplying weapons to Ukraine because it needs arms to defend its sovereignty, Reuters reported.

Zelenskyy made his comment at a joint news conference with visiting Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte in Kyiv.

"We have a common understanding with the Netherlands that there should not be any taboo on the supply and support of weapons to our army, to our Ukraine, because it supports and protects our sovereignty," he said.
 
8:50 a.m.: 8:30 a.m.: Ukrainian soldiers fighting to hold off a Russian push on the small eastern city of Bakhmut pleaded for more weapons from the outside world as senior Western leaders met in Munich on Friday to assess the year-long war shaking Europe, Reuters reported.

"Give us more military equipment, more weapons, and we will deal with the Russian occupier, we will destroy them," said Dmytro, a serviceman standing in the snow near Bakhmut which Russia's Wagner mercenary group is attacking.

Nearly one year into the invasion, President Vladimir Putin's troops are intensifying assaults in the east.

Ukraine is planning a spring counter-offensive, for which it wants more, heavier and longer-range weapons from its Western allies.

The governor of Luhansk, one of two provinces in what is known as the Donbas which Russia partially controls and wants to take completely, said ground and air attacks were increasing.

"Today it is rather difficult on all directions," Serhiy Haidai told local TV. "There are constant attempts to break through our defense lines," he said of fighting near the city of Kreminna.
 
8:15 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy urged Western allies Friday to quicken their military support for Ukraine, warning at a major international security conference that delays would play into Russia’s hand as the invasion approaches its first anniversary, The Associated Press reported.

“There is no alternative to speed, because it’s speed that life depends on,” Zelenskyy told the Munich Security Conference in Germany.

Ukraine is depending on Western weapons to thwart Russian President Vladimir Putin’s ambition of securing control of large areas of the country, in what has become a test of foreign governments’ resolve amid increasing financial costs.

About 40 heads of state and government, as well as politicians and security experts from almost 100 countries, including the United States, Europe and China, were due to attend the three-day gathering.

In his plea for more Western weapons, Zelenskyy compared Ukraine’s struggle against the Russian invasion to the biblical fight between David and Goliath, saying his country had David’s courage but needed help in getting the sling.

Zelenskyy vowed that his country would ultimately prevail over Moscow’s aggression but warned that Russia “can still destroy many lives.”

“That is why we need to hurry up,” Zelenskyy said. “We need the speed.”

Zelenskyy portrays Ukraine as defending Western values of freedom and democracy against tyranny and argues that his country needs to be properly provisioned to fend off Russia’s much bigger force. Western countries have sided with him, but at times they have been slow to meet his requests. 7:35 a.m.: The Munich Security Conference's opening ceremony featured several speakers, including Christoph Heusgen, the Chairman of the MSC, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy (via video speech), German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, and French President Emmanuel Macron. The event was broadcast live by BR24. 7:20 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is set to address the annual Munich Security Conference on Friday via video link.

Last year, the conference attendees implored Russian President Vladimir Putin not to invade Ukraine. This year the conference is opening just days ahead of the February 24 anniversary of the invasion. 7:05 a.m.: U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris will join the leaders of France, Germany, the U.K. and dozens of others Friday at a security conference in Germany to discuss the next steps in supporting Ukraine as the Russian invasion nears its one-year anniversary, The Associated Press reported.

U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is also scheduled to attend the three-day conference. The conference will bring together about 40 heads of state and government as well as politicians and security experts from almost 100 countries.

For the first time in two decades, Russian leaders were not invited to the Munich Security Conference, a yearly gathering of world leaders, politicians and security experts, which is set to open with a video address by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy. Besides the Russians, organizers didn’t invite officials from Iran due to the bloody crackdown on nationwide anti-government protests in the Islamic Republic.

Harris is returning to stage at the conference a year after she shared U.S. warnings, just days before the invasion began, that Russia was about to attack its neighbor. In her speech Saturday, the vice president will lay out what’s at stake in the war and why it matters, to bolster the case for maintaining U.S. support for Ukraine for as long as it takes, the White House said.

Some Republicans in Congress are calling for an end to military and financial aid to Kyiv, and a new poll from The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research shows support among the American public for providing Ukraine weaponry and direct economic assistance has dropped.

Harris will meet French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak on the sidelines of the Munich forum to discuss the next steps in supporting Ukraine on the battlefield and efforts to impose costs on Russia, the White House said. She will also have a joint meeting with the prime ministers of Finland and Sweden in which she will underscore Washington’s strong support for their applications to join NATO. 6:50 a.m.: 6:30 a.m.: Russia on Friday accused the United States of inciting Ukraine to escalate the war by condoning attacks on Crimea, warning that Washington was now directly involved in the conflict because "crazy people" had dreams of defeating Russia, Reuters reported.

Moscow was responding to comments by U.S. Under Secretary of State Victoria Nuland who said the United States considers that Crimea, which Russia annexed from Ukraine in 2014, should be demilitarized at a minimum and that Washington supports Ukrainian attacks on military targets on the peninsula.

"Now the American warmongers have gone even further: They incite the Kyiv regime to further escalate the war," Maria Zakharova, spokeswoman for the Russian foreign ministry, told reporters when asked about Nuland's remarks.

"They supply weapons in huge quantities, provide intelligence and participate directly in the planning of combat operations," Zakharova said, adding that some U.S. officials dreamed like "crazies" of defeating Russia.

6:10 a.m.: 5:45 a.m.: Ukrainian forces have repelled Russian attacks on multiple settlements over the past day, as Russia continued to target Ukraine’s critical infrastructure, Kyiv said on Friday, according to Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty.

The Russian military launched 41 missile strikes on Ukraine in the past day and five of them hit the Kharkiv region, Ukraine’s military said in its morning bulletin. Ukrainian air defense forces shot down 16 of the missiles, the General Staff of Ukraine's military added.

The Russian Army also carried out 24 air strikes, the bulletin said. The attacks caused casualties among the civilian population, the General Staff said, but didn’t provide further details. Reports say 50 homes and one industrial plant were damaged by the latest attacks.

"Unfortunately, there are hits in the north, west, and in the Dnipropetrovsk and Kirovohrad regions," Andriy Yermak, the head of the presidential office, said on Telegram. Local officials said that at least one person was killed and eight others wounded in a missile strike in Pavlohrad in the Dnipropetrovsk region.

Three missiles hit what was described as critical infrastructure in the Lviv region in the country’s west. Russian missiles also hit targets in the central regions of Poltava and Kirovohrad and in Donetsk and Luhansk in eastern Ukraine.


5:20 a.m.: Russia has switched its aerial strike tactics to fool Ukraine’s air defenses, using decoy missiles without explosive warheads and deploying balloons, a senior Ukrainian official said Thursday.

“The Russians are definitely changing tactics” as the war approaches its one-year anniversary, Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, said in an interview with The Associated Press.

The goal of the decoy missiles, Podolyak said, is to overwhelm Ukraine’s air defense systems by offering too many targets.

“They want to overload our anti-aircraft system to get an extra chance to hit infrastructure facilities,” Podolyak said, adding that Ukraine’s air defenses are adapting to the challenge.

In the AP interview, Podolyak also renewed Ukraine’s appeals for long-range missiles that would enable it to strike Russian troop concentrations far behind the front lines, and also stressed that “we just don’t have enough shells.” 5:07 a.m.: The Institute for the Study of War, a U.S. think tank, said in its latest Ukraine assessment that Russian forces continued offensive operations northwest of Svatove, near Kreminna, around Bakhmut, along the western outskirts of Donetsk City and in western Donetsk Oblast. Russian sources claimed that Ukrainian forces continued reconnaissance activities along the Dnipro River in Kherson Oblast. 4:08 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry estimated Russian casualties since Russia invaded Ukraine at about 175,000-200,000. Of that number, some 40,000-60,000 were killed, and most of the casualties were caused by artillery attacks. The update noted that "extremely rudimentary medical provision across much of the force" contributed to the deaths, which by standards are high. 3:13 a.m.: The United States remains steadfast in its support for war-torn Ukraine, a leading Democratic senator told Agence France-Presse in an interview Thursday before heading to the world's largest global security conference in Germany. Sheldon Whitehouse, a Democrat from Rhode Island, said concerns about the U.S. reducing funding to Ukraine are overblown. "I think that the hostility to continuing to support Ukraine has been much exaggerated... I think even among House Republicans, the normal view is to continue to support Ukraine." The Rhode Island senator told AFP it was "possible" that an agreement could even be reached on sending fighter jets to Kyiv, a controversial idea that has sparked heated debate in the coalition of countries supporting the Western ally. He is traveling to Germany with Republican Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina. 2:16 a.m.: Russian Grad rockets and barrel artillery slammed into a residential district in the Ukrainian city of Bakhmut on Thursday, killing three men and two women and wounding nine more, Ukraine's prosecutor general said, adding it was being investigated as a war crime. An investigation had determined that Russia fired barrel artillery and Grad rockets at Bakhmut on Thursday, the office said, Reuters reported. There was no immediate word from Moscow on the allegation that civilians were killed, and Reuters could not independently confirm the battlefield report. Russia says it strives to avoid injuring civilians. A current focus of its forces is Bakhmut in Donetsk, one of two regions making up the Donbas, the country's industrial heartland now partially occupied by Russia. The prosecutor general's office said the regional office in Donetsk was leading pre-trial investigations and criminal proceedings under the section of Ukraine's criminal code that covers violations of the laws and customs of war. 1:12 a.m.: Oleksandra Matviichuk, a Ukrainian rights activist whose NGO was co-winner of last year's Nobel Peace Prize, called Thursday for the world to "hold Russian war criminals accountable," in an interview with Agence France-Presse. "We must break the circle of impunity," she said, urging the United Nations and the European Union to back Kyiv's call for a special tribunal able to judge top Russian officials all the way up to President Vladimir Putin. While acknowledging that getting a majority of U.N. member countries behind that goal was a "hard task," Matviichuk said it was indispensable for any post-war peace that might follow the end of the conflict in her country. "There will not be sustainable peace without justice," she noted. 12:02 a.m.: Russia's decision to cut crude oil production by 500,000 barrels per day reflects its inability to sell all of its oil, Ben Harris, a U.S. Treasury Department Assistant Secretary, said Thursday, Reuters reported. Russia's Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak last week said it would voluntarily cut production beginning next month following the start of Western price caps on Russian oil and oil products on Feb. 5. The move to cut around 5% of output temporarily pushed up global prices. "They cut back on production because they just couldn't sell it (the oil), not because they wanted to weaponize oil and refined products," Harris said in remarks at the Argus Americas Crude Summit. The cut follows embargoes and sanctions, including an unprecedented $60 a barrel price cap on its crude, by Western countries to punish Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine. Poland, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia have pushed for lowering the crude oil cap. Russia's monthly budget revenues from oil and gas fell 46% in January to their lowest level since August 2020 under the impact of Western sanctions on its most lucrative export, according to finance ministry data. Some information in this report came from Reuters and Agence France-Presse.