For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia's war on Ukraine. All times EST. 11:05 a.m.: Finnish parliamentary groups said on Friday they may ratify NATO's founding treaties in the coming weeks, a key step that could lead the country to proceed with membership of the Western military alliance ahead of neighboring Sweden, Reuters reported.

The two Nordic countries sought NATO membership shortly after Russia's invasion of Ukraine last year and have said they want to join "hand in hand", but while most member-states have ratified the applications, Turkey objects to Sweden's candidacy.

Facing an April election, most political parties in Finland have said they want parliament to vote on the treaties before its March 3 recess, and the foreign affairs committee on Friday debated required legislation behind closed doors.

Discussions will continue next week, but progress has been made, the head of the foreign relations committee, Jussi Halla-Aho of the True Finns party, told public broadcaster Yle.

10:50 a.m.: 10:40 a.m.: Following her unexpected resignation Friday, Moldova’s former prime minister, Natalia Gavrilita, a 41-year-old economist who was appointed in August 2021, told a news conference that her government “would have been able to move forward more and faster” had it garnered the same support and trust domestically as it did from other European countries, The Associated Press reported.

Gavrilita’s premiership was marked by a long string of problems. These include an acute energy crisis after Moscow dramatically reduced supplies to Moldova and skyrocketing inflation in the wake of Russia’s invasion of neighboring Ukraine. 

She also said that no one expected her government “would have to manage so many crises caused by Russian aggression in Ukraine.” Compounding that were missiles from the war traversing Moldova’s skies.

“I took over the government with an anti-corruption, pro-development and pro-European mandate at a time when corruption schemes had captured all the institutions and the oligarchs felt untouchable,” Gavrilita said. “We were immediately faced with energy blackmail, and those who did this hoped that we would give in.” 

“The bet of the enemies of our country was that we would act like previous governments, who gave up energy interests, who betrayed the national interest in exchange for short-term benefits,” she added.

President Maia Sandu thanked Gavrilita on Friday for her “enormous sacrifice and efforts to lead the country in a time of so many crises.” 10:25 a.m.: Moldova's pro-Western government resigned on Friday after a turbulent 18 months in power, and President Maia Sandu nominated 48-year-old presidential aide and former interior minister Dorin Recean to be the new prime minister, Reuters reported.

Recean, who is expected to quickly win parliamentary approval, said he would press on with Moldova's bid to join the European Union and revive the economy. "The new government will have three priorities: Order and discipline, a new life and economy, and peace and stability," Recean, a defense adviser to Sandu and secretary of Moldova's security council, told a news briefing.

His challenges include dealing with what Moldova portrays as attempts by Russia to destabilize the tiny former Soviet republic of 2.5 million people which borders Ukraine and NATO and EU member Romania. Russia, which has troops in Moldova's breakaway region of Transdniestria, has bristled at the possibility of former Soviet republics joining the EU.

EU leaders accepted Moldova as a membership candidate last year in a diplomatic triumph for Sandu. The government had been mapping out reforms to accelerate accession to the 27-nation bloc and working on diversifying its energy supply.

But Moldova faces soaring inflation and has struggled to cope with an influx of Ukrainian refugees. It has also suffered power cuts after Russian attacks on Ukrainian energy facilities, and struggled to end its reliance on Russian gas.

The steep price increases, particularly for Russian gas, led to street protests last year in which demonstrators called for the government and Sandu to resign. Chisinau has described the protests as part of a Kremlin-sponsored campaign to destabilize the government.

Political analyst Iulian Groza, of the Institute for European Policies and Reforms in Chisinau, said Friday's reshuffle was meant to "re-energize" the cabinet. Groza, a former deputy foreign minister, predicted a new cabinet would be presented to parliament by the end of next week.

10:00 a.m.: Moldovan President Maia Sandu has nominated former Interior Minister Dorin Recean as prime minister after Natalia Gavrilita stepped down just a year and a half into her government's mandate, automatically triggering the resignation of the entire cabinet and plunging one of Europe's poorest countries into a political crisis as war rages in neighboring Ukraine, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty reported.

The political drama unfolded on Friday as the country faces energy, economic, and security crises sparked by Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Sandu wasted no time in making the appointment, just hours after Gavrilita said she was stepping down after 18 turbulent months in power that were shadowed by the conflict in Ukraine. That war has at times threatened to spill over into Moldova, which has warned that Moscow, which maintains troops in the breakaway region of Transdniester, may try to destabilize the country.

In a sign of how precarious the situation is, officials in Chisinau confirmed earlier on Friday that a Russian missile had violated Moldovan airspace and that Russia's ambassador had been summoned in protest.

Recean, who has been a defense adviser to Sandu as the secretary of Moldova's Security Council, now has 14 days to propose a new government to parliament.

"The country's economy and security need a new life," Sandu told a news briefing held at the presidents office alongside the 48-year-old Recean.

Sandu said the new government will have a mission to accelerate a cleanup of the justice system, the fight against corruption, and economic growth. "2023 will be a year of reconstruction," she declared. 9:35 a.m.: 9:15 a.m.: Ukrainians reacted with puzzlement and some ire to comments by a top Starlink official that their country has “weaponized” the satellite internet service, which has been pivotal to their national survival, The Associated Press reported.

The network of low-orbiting satellites has been crucial to Ukraine’s use of battlefield drones — a central fixture of the year-old war — and the country’s defenders have no viable alternative. The satellite links help Ukrainian fighters locate the enemy and target long-range artillery strikes.

Onstage at a conference in Washington, D.C., the president of SpaceX Gwynne Shotwell said on Wednesday: “We were really pleased to be able to provide Ukraine connectivity and help them in their fight for freedom. It was never intended to be weaponized. However, Ukrainians have leveraged it in ways that were unintentional and not part of any agreement.”

Speaking separately to reporters from The Wall Street Journal and other news organizations afterward, Shotwell said SpaceX has worked to restrict Ukraine’s use of Starlink for military purposes.

That drew the ire of a top aide to President Volodymyr Zelenskyy. In a tweet, Mykhailo Podolyak said SpaceX needs to decide whether it is on the side of Ukraine’s right to freedom or Russia’s “‘right’ to kill & seize territories.”

There was no indication of any interruption to Starlink service in Ukraine.

In a statement, the country’s Minister of Digital Transformation Mykhailo Fedorov reported “no problems with the operation of Starlink uplink terminals in Ukraine.” A ministry official familiar with the situation said checks Thursday of cities near the war’s front lines found no indications of trouble with Starlink coverage. The official spoke on condition they not be further identified.

8:50 a.m.: Belarus on Friday condemned as "catastrophic" a decision by Poland to close a border checkpoint between the two countries, saying it could lead to a collapse on both sides of the border, Reuters reported.

Poland said on Thursday, citing security concerns, it would close a key border crossing into Belarus at Bobrowniki, starting at 12 p.m. (1100 GMT) on Friday, driving already hostile relations between the two countries to a new low.

Poland has been a key refuge for opponents of Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko and Warsaw has become one of Kyiv's staunchest supporters since Belarus' main ally Russia invaded Ukraine in February 2022.

The Belarus government criticized the border decision on Thursday, but went further in a statement on Friday, calling the move irrational and dangerous. "The actions of the Polish authorities could lead to a collapse on both sides of the border," the country's border committee said in a statement shared on social media.

Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said that Poland might close further border crossings. "We are not excluding closing other border crossings with Belarus," he told a news conference in Brussels. "The reason for this is that there are growing tensions with Belarus and they are being instrumentalized by the Russians and the Kremlin."

8:25 a.m.: Russia’s President Vladimir Putin is set to address the Russian parliament before the one-year anniversary of the invasion of Ukraine, on February 21, the Kyiv Independent reported Friday.

“The announcement comes amid concerns that Russia may renew its offensive to mark the one-year anniversary of the all-out war,” the media organization noted.

8:10 a.m.: Ukraine’s Prosecutor General, Andriy Kostin, has called for the creation of an ad hoc international tribunal to investigate and prosecute Russian’s aggression in Ukraine. VOA’s Oleksii Kovalenko has the story. No media source currently available 7:45 a.m.: Channels of telephone communication between Russia and NATO remain open but normal diplomatic relations between the two sides are out of the question, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Grushko said on Friday, according to Reuters. Relations between Moscow and the U.S.-led Atlantic alliance are at post-Cold War lows following Russia's decision to send tens of thousands of troops into Ukraine on Feb. 24 last year in what it calls a "special military operation". "Military channels have remained open to date - in particular a telephone communication line between Russia's Chief of the General Staff and the commander of NATO troops in Europe," Grushko said in an interview on state TV. Russia's ambassador to Belgium, where NATO is headquartered, has also been instructed to communicate with NATO when necessary, Grushko added. Emergency military hotlines are known to exist between Russia and the United States in order to offer an always-open line of communication, designed to be used to de-escalate potentially hostile situations between the world's largest nuclear powers. 7:15 a.m.: Moldovan Prime Minister Natalia Gavrilita has stepped down just a year and a half into her government's mandate, automatically triggering the resignation of the entire cabinet and plunging one of Europe's poorest countries into a political crisis as war rages in neighboring Ukraine, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty reported. The move on February 10 comes as the country faces energy, economic, and security crises sparked by Russia's invasion of Ukraine. "In spite of unprecedented challenges, the country was governed responsibly, with a lot of attention and dedicated work. We have stability, peace, and development -- where others wanted war and bankruptcy," President Maia Sandu said in a statement posted on Facebook announcing she had accepted the resignation. Sandu said she will hold consultations with the factions of parties in parliament, "and, afterward, I will nominate a candidate for the post of prime minister of the Republic of Moldova." Once she does that, the candidate has 14 days to propose a new government to parliament. Amid the ongoing war in Ukraine, Russia has drastically cut gas deliveries to Europe in response to Western sanctions over its invasion, triggering an energy crisis at the onset of winter. This has particularly affected Moldova, a European Union candidate country wedged between Ukraine and Romania, which relies predominantly on Russia for its gas supplies. 6:30 a.m.: 6:00 a.m.:  Ukraine experienced a massive missile attack Friday that resulted in explosions heard across the country, including the capital city of Kyiv, VOA's Anna Chernikova reported from the capital. Kyiv's mayor, Vitali Klitschko, confirmed that air defense forces destroyed 10 missiles above the city, and debris from the missiles damaged a private building and a vehicle. The attacks also resulted in electricity outages and damage to critical infrastructure in western cities such as Khmelnytskyi and in eastern cities including Zaporizhzhia, Kharkiv, and Kryvyi Rih. At least 8 civilians were reported wounded in the city of Kharkiv. Minister of Energy Herman Halushchenko confirmed that the attack resulted in hits to thermal and hydro-generation facilities, as well as high-voltage infrastructure in six regions. The most severe situation is currently in the Zaporizhzhia, Kharkiv, and Khmelnytskyi regions. According to Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine Valerii Zaluzhnyi, two Russian Kalibr cruise missiles were launched by Russian forces from the Black Sea, crossed through Moldova’s airspace, and Ukraine’s air defense destroyed both missiles as soon as they were back in the airspace of Ukraine. The Ministry of Defense of Moldova also confirmed this, and the Ministry of Defense of Romania reported that the missiles were recorded 35 kilometers from the border of Romania, a NATO member state. The Ukrainian air defense forces reported that they successfully destroyed 61 out of 71 missiles and 5 out of 7 drones during the attack. 5:15 a.m.: The Institute for the Study of War, a U.S. think tank, said in its latest Ukraine assessment that Russian forces continued offensive operations along the Svatove-Kreminna line, conducted limited ground attacks in western Donetsk Oblast and the Avdiivka-Donetsk City area and continued offensive operations around Bakhmut. Russian forces also conducted a limited ground attack in Zaporizhia Oblast. 4:09 a.m.: Ukrainian officials in the east, scene of the fiercest fighting in the war with Russia, said an anticipated fresh offensive by Moscow is under way, Reuters reported, citing local officials. Pavlo Krylenko, governor of the eastern Donetsk region, was asked Thursday on Ukrainian television if the Russian offensive had begun and replied: "Yes, definitely." Around eastern towns like Bakhmut, Avdiivka and Vuhledar that have witnessed some of the bloodiest battles of the war, "the enemy's forces and means are escalating there with daily intensity. They are trying to ... seize these areas and key cities ... to score new successes," he said. The wider Donbas area of the east, comprised of Donetsk and Luhansk, has been one of Russia's major objectives, and the Kremlin declared them in the autumn to be among four annexed territories after referendums decried as shams by the West. "Over the past week to 10 days, the frequency of shelling has increased. The daily number of attacks has increased," Luhansk governor Serhiy Haidai told Ukrainian Radio NV on Thursday. "In real terms, this is part of the full-scale offensive planned by the Russians." Reuters could not independently verify the battlefield accounts. 3:06 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry said Russian forces are advancing north of Bakhmut and around the town of Vuhledar. In operations around the latter, inexperienced Russian troops have led to particularly heavy casualties. 2:13 a.m.: Poland is buying 10% of its oil supplies from Russia, a deputy minister for state assets said Thursday, despite Warsaw's repeated calls for strengthening sanctions on Russian oil, Agence France-Presse reported. An embargo on Russia oil products, like diesel, gasoline and jet fuel, implemented by the bloc came into effect Sunday. That expanded on an EU embargo on seaborne oil deliveries introduced two months ago. Poland had declared last year it had a "radical plan" of stopping all Russian oil imports by the end of 2022. But deputy minister for state assets Maciej Malecki told parliament that Poland still has a valid contract with a Russian company Tatneft. The deal expiring at the end of 2024 covers "around 10% of the needs of (Polish oil firm) Orlen," Malecki said. Malecki said the contract with Tatneft cannot be terminated as it would force Warsaw to pay compensation fees to the Russian firm. 1:07 a.m.: German authorities searched the premises of three companies early Thursday as part of an ongoing probe into the possible violation of European Union sanctions against Russia, Reuters reported, citing prosecutors' statement. The raids followed a Reuters investigation in December into the supply chain that has continued to ship billions of dollars' worth of electronic components to Russia despite Western export restrictions and manufacturer bans. German authorities also searched the residences of three suspects, according to the statement, which didn't name the companies or individuals. The statement said that records, documents and IT equipment were seized. A person familiar with the case said one of the three companies searched by prosecutors was Smart Impex, a German wholesaler of IT products that is suspected by authorities of bypassing sanctions on electronic components via an intermediary company in Turkey. Reuters was unable to reach Smart Impex or its manager, Gokturk Agvaz, by phone on Thursday for comment. The names of the other two companies or the three suspects couldn't be determined. 12:02 a.m.: The number of foreign tourists visiting Russia collapsed last year because of the impact of Western sanctions imposed on the country following its military operation in Ukraine and strict COVID-19 restrictions in China, Agence France-Presse reported Thursday, citing industry professionals. Only 200,100 foreigners visited Russia in 2022, the Association of Tour Operators of Russia (ATOR) said, citing figures from border services, a drop of 96.1% from pre-pandemic years. "The reasons are clear: the closed skies between Russia and the vast majority of European countries, as well as the impossibility to use foreign-issued Visa and Mastercard cards in Russia," ATOR said. Most of Europe closed its airspace to Russian planes a few days after the Kremlin launched the Ukraine offensive in February 2022. Also, draconian COVID-related restrictions in China that Beijing only recently abandoned kept Chinese tourists from taking advantage of the situation. Before the pandemic Chinese tourists were the top visitors to Russia, accounting for around 30% of the 5.1 million total. In 2022 only 842 Chinese tourists visited Russia. Some information in this report came from Agence France-Presse and Reuters.