For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST. 3:35 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy will visit Britain on Wednesday to meet Prime Minister Rishi Sunak, Sunak's office said, according to Reuters and The Associated Press. This is Zelenskyy’s first trip to the U.K. since the war began and he plans to address Parliament. Zelenskyy will visit Ukrainian troops currently training in Britain. Sunak's office announced plans to expand training for the Armed Forces of Ukraine to sea and air — including fighter jet pilots and marines — and accelerate the supply of military equipment. "President Zelenskyy's visit to the UK is a testament to his country's courage, determination and fight, and a testament to the unbreakable friendship between our two countries," Sunak said in the statement. 2:20 a.m.: Reuters reported that Russian Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak said on Wednesday that European Union moves to add what he called "exemptions" to its price cap on oil products showed that Russian oil was still in demand. "Yesterday we saw another change to the European Union's regulations, the exemptions," he said in comments published by the state-run TASS news agency. "This once again emphasizes that our oil products are in demand in Europe, once European politicians indicated that their actions defy any logic and take such decisions and think how to get out of this situation," he said. The European Union said last week it agreed to set price caps on Russian refined oil products to limit Moscow's ability to finance its war in Ukraine. At the same time, the EU introduced several exemptions to the way its price cap works. It said in its latest guidance update that the price cap would no longer apply after crude oil or petroleum products were released for free circulation in a jurisdiction outside Russia and handed over to the landed purchaser. The price cap no longer applies to Russian petroleum products when the blending operations in a third country "result in a tariff shift" or changes in the oil product type. The West also imposed a ban on sea-borne Russian oil purchases in December and a price cap of $60 per barrel, which is still above the current price of Russia's flagship Urals crude blend. 1:55 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 8 February 2023 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/cJ3RIZCDLN🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/N6txUY0ikS 12:55 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy thanked Biden "for the powerful words of support." "We are grateful for U.S. leadership in helping Ukraine, for solidarity of the entire U.S. people," Zelenskyy tweeted Wednesday. "Our values are the same, our common goal is victory." Thank you @POTUS for the powerful words of support for 🇺🇦 while addressing the nation. We are grateful for 🇺🇸 leadership in helping 🇺🇦, for solidarity of the entire 🇺🇸 people. Our values ​​are the same, our common goal is victory. 🇺🇦 freely chooses its future. It is & will be so! 12:10 a.m.: U.S. President Joe Biden said Tuesday the United States is united in support for Ukraine as it opposes a Russian invasion, and that the U.S. will stand with Ukraine "as long as it takes." Speaking during his State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress, Biden said government united NATO, built a global coalition and stood against the aggression of Russian President Vladimir Putin. The United States and other NATO allies have provided billions of dollars in military aid, including air defense systems, to bolster Ukrainian forces. U.S. and European Union sanctions have also sought to impose a financial cost on Russia. Biden noted that his address to lawmakers last year came days after Putin launched what Biden called a "brutal attack against Ukraine" and a test for the world. "Would we stand for the most basic of principles? Would we stand for sovereignty? Would we stand for the right of people to live free from tyranny? Would we stand for the defense of democracy?" Biden asked. Putin has criticized Western aid to Ukraine as being a threat against Russia, while saying Russia will prevail in Ukraine. 12:01 a.m.: Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu is likely attempting to posture the Russian Ministry of Defense as an effective and involved leadership apparatus as the Russian military prepares for a renewed major offensive in #Ukraine. Latest w/ @criticalthreats: https://t.co/x4BlMq7Biy pic.twitter.com/mNcs0fVCFa Some information in this report came from Reuters and The Associated Press.