For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia's war on Ukraine. All times EST.  6 a.m.: Japan will offer Ukraine fresh financial support worth $5.5 billion, Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said Monday, Agence France-Presse reported. "There is still a need to assist people whose livelihoods have been destroyed by the war, and to restore destroyed infrastructure. We have decided to provide additional financial support of $5.5 billion," he said in a speech at a think-tank symposium. 5:30 a.m.: ⚡️Biden, Zelensky visit the Wall of Remembrance of the Fallen for Ukraine.U.S. President Joe Biden and President Volodymyr Zelensky have met in Kyiv on Feb. 20.Video: Ukrainska Pravda pic.twitter.com/MYwA8iklA5 5:20 a.m.: U.S. President Joe Biden arrived in Kyiv in Ukraine on Monday, as Russia's invasion of Ukraine nears the one-year mark. During his visit, he will announce delivery of critical equipment, including artillery ammunition, anti-armor systems, air surveillance radars to Ukraine, Reuters cited a White House statement as saying on Monday. Biden said during his visit that Washington would provide Kyiv with a new military aid package worth $500 million. Biden said the package would be announced on Tuesday and that Washington would also provide more ammunition for High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems in Ukraine's possession. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy wrote on Telegram that Biden's visit was an "extremely important sign of support for all Ukrainians" and posted a photo of the two leaders shaking hands. 5 a.m.: President Biden makes a surprise visit to Kyiv in dramatic show of U.S. support for Ukraine days before anniversary of invasion https://t.co/iqUrTrRqvq 4:55 a.m.: According to Reuters, Dutch intelligence agencies said on Monday that Russia appeared to be preparing for the disruption and sabotage of critical offshore infrastructure in the Dutch part of the North Sea. "Dutch vital maritime infrastructure in the North Sea, such as internet cables, gas pipes and windmill farms, can be vulnerable for sabotage," the Dutch military and general intelligence agencies AIVD and MIVD said in a joint report. "Russia is secretly charting this infrastructure and is undertaking activities which indicate preparations for disruption and sabotage." The agencies said covert threats by Russia to water and energy supplies in the Netherlands were also conceivable. 4:35 a.m.: The European Union needs to ensure that Ukraine has enough ammunition to continue its fight against the Russian invasion, the EU's top diplomat said on Monday, according to Reuters. "It is the most urgent issue. If we fail on that, the result of the war is in danger," Josep Borrell said before a meeting with foreign affairs ministers from the EU countries in Brussels. "The Russian artillery shoots about 50,000 shots a day, and Ukraine needs to be at the same level of capacity. They have cannons but they lack ammunition." 4 a.m.: Beijing lashed out on Monday against what it said were "false" claims by the United States that China is considering arming Russia in its war against Ukraine, Agence France-Presse reported. "It is the United States and not China that is endlessly shipping weapons to the battlefield," China's foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said when asked about the US claims. "We urge the United States to earnestly reflect on its own actions, and do more to alleviate the situation, promote peace and dialogue, and stop shifting blame and spreading false information." The statement came after US Secretary of State Antony Blinken told CBS in an interview that China was now "considering providing lethal support" to Moscow ranging "from ammunition to the weapons themselves". He made similar comments in a series of interviews from Germany, where on Saturday he attended the Munich Security Conference and met with his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi. Blinken's accusations came as relations between the two powers were further strained after Washington shot down what it said was a Chinese spy balloon. There have been concerns China is deepening ties with Russia despite the conflict — but Wang Yi said that Beijing was playing a constructive role and stood firmly on the side of dialogue. "We do not accept the United States' finger-pointing on China-Russia relations, let alone coercion and pressure," spokesman Wang Wenbin said. "China's direction on the Ukraine issue can be summed up in one phrase, which is urging peace and promoting dialogue." 3:35 a.m.: Reuters reported that foreign minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said on Monday that Turkey is not selling products that could be used in Russia's war effort, after U.S. warnings earlier this month about exports of chemicals, microchips and other products. Speaking after meeting U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken in Ankara, Cavusoglu said Turkey will not allow U.S. and European sanctions to be violated in or via Turkey, and Ankara is taking steps to prevent it. A top U.S. Treasury official visited Turkish government and private sector officials earlier this month to urge more cooperation in disrupting the flow of goods that can be used by Moscow's defense industries. 3:05 a.m.: Ukrainian refugees are portrayed in some media as ungrateful and dangerous — here's how to recognize such propagandist tactics: https://t.co/Q55v2rPCCO 2:50 a.m.: China's top diplomat, Wang Yi, has arrived in Moscow for talks on a possible peace plan for Ukraine, Reuters cited the Kommersant newspaper as reporting. "The main purpose of his trip is to increase the role of Beijing in the Ukrainian settlement," Kommersant said. At the annual Munich Security Conference, Wang accused the United States of violating international norms with "hysterical" behavior. Wang reiterated a call for dialog and suggested European countries "think calmly" about how to end the war. Wang also said there were "some forces that seemingly don't want negotiations to succeed, or for the war to end soon," without specifying to whom he was referring. China's Xi Jinping will deliver a "peace speech" on the anniversary of the invasion of Ukraine, Italy's foreign minister said on Friday. 2:10 a.m.: Turkish and Russian leaders may soon discuss a U.N.-backed initiative that has enabled the export of grain from Ukrainian ports, but there is no date set yet, a source familiar with the negotiations on the deal told RIA Novosti on Monday, according to Reuters. Broader negotiations on extending the Black Sea Grain Initiative that has allowed grain to be exported from three Ukrainian ports are expected this week, Ukraine said. The agreement is for renewal in March, but Russia has signaled that it is unhappy with some aspects of the deal and has asked for sanctions affecting its agricultural exports to be lifted. "The topic of the grain deal, proposals in this regard are always on the agenda of the leaders. Therefore, it should not be ruled out that the leaders will touch on this topic at talks in the near future," state-owned RIA news agency quoted its source as saying. When asked when these negotiations could take place, the source said that he "does not have exact data on the date." 1:30 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 20 February 2023Find out more about Defence Intelligence: https://t.co/WmgdSo26nd🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/nCbHIkxusO 1:15 a.m.: A hairdresser by day and a "drone hunter" by night, Oleksandr Shamshur, 41, is among the tens of thousands of volunteers helping to defend the skies over Ukraine against Russian attacks, Reuters reported. As the February 24 first anniversary of Russia's invasion nears, Ukraine is becoming increasingly adept at shooting down Russian missiles and drones fired at cities far from the front lines, and Shamshur takes pride in his role. Members of his territorial defense unit, including a lawyer and a businessman, respond to air raid alerts in and around Kyiv by seeking to down Iranian-made Shahed-136 drones with a restored World War II machine gun. "I am a very happy person. Why? Because I am defending my country, I am defending our Ukrainian people," Shamshur said as he combed the capital's moonlit skyline through a thermal camera with a range finder from his position on a rooftop. Nearby, a fellow fighter was adjusting the green barrels of the Soviet-made "Maxim" machine gun. During the night of December 29-30, Shamshur said, his rooftop unit shot down two drones over Kyiv. His team have also passed on the skills they have learned to other units. 12:40 a.m.: Tonight's report forecasts the unlikelihood of significantly increased Russian offensive operations this winter based on an assessment of Russian forces already committed to active operations compared w/ #Russia’s overall ground forces' order of battle.🧵https://t.co/sXNDrBE7ul https://t.co/Qr0dJLIM9B pic.twitter.com/XmiaYlSyao 12:01 a.m.: President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in an interview published on Sunday that Ukraine would maintain its months-long defense of the eastern city of Bakhmut, mindful of the price paid in human lives. Zelenskyy was quoted in the Italian daily Corriere della Sera as debate rages over whether Kyiv's outnumbered forces should remain in the eastern Ukraine city, which Russian shelling has all but destroyed. Bakhmut, in the front-line Donetsk region, had a prewar population of 70,000 but now Ukrainian officials estimate fewer than 5,000 civilians remain. "Yes, it is not a particularly big town. In fact, like many others in Donbas, (it's been) devastated by the Russians. It is important for us to defend it, but not at any price and not for everyone to die," Zelenskyy told the daily, Reuters reported. Zelenskyy said Russian commanders were bent on pushing on to the cities of Kramatorsk and Sloviansk, farther west in Donetsk region "and as far as (the central city of) Dnipro." "We will resist and meanwhile prepare the next counter-attack." Some information in this report came from Reuters and Agence France-Presse.