For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST. 9:35 a.m.: Iraq will discuss with Washington this week how to pay dues owed to Russian oil companies despite sanctions, Reuters reported. "We will discuss this problem with the American side. There are sanctions in place that should not be imposed on the Iraqi side because the cooperation with Russian companies is ongoing and there are active Russian companies in Iraq," Foreign Minister Fuad Hussein said on Monday during a news conference with visiting Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov in Baghdad. Russian investments in Iraq are believed to be worth more than $10 billion, mostly in the oil industry. Huessin said that one of the main issues he and Lavrov talked about was how to pay bills owed to Russian energy companies such as Lukoil and Gazprom that do business in Iraq even though Russia is under international sanctions. The goal is to "protect Iraqi banks and central banks from sanctions."

9:05 a.m.: The war in Ukraine has left thousands of wounded soldiers, many of whom require the latest technologies to heal and return to normal life. VOA’s Anna Chernikova visited a rehabilitation center near Kyiv, where cutting edge technology and holistic care are giving soldiers hope. No media source currently available 8:40 a.m.: The Kremlin said on Monday that International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) chief Rafael Grossi will not meet Russian President Vladimir Putin during his visit to Moscow this week, according to Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters that Grossi would meet officials from the state nuclear energy firm, Rosatom, and the Foreign Ministry. He also said that Moscow expected "a substantive dialogue." The IAEA has repeatedly expressed concerns about the safety of Ukraine's Zaporizhzhya nuclear power plant, which Russian forces seized last March soon after invading Ukraine. The plant has come under repeated shelling, with the two sides blaming each other.

8:25 a.m.: President Vladimir Putin offered Russian assistance on Monday to Syria and Turkey after a major earthquake of magnitude 7.8 killed more than 500 people and injured thousands in the two countries, Reuters reported. Russia has strong relations with both Syria and Turkey: Putin backed President Bashar al-Assad in the civil war and has a strong rapport with President Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, a NATO member which has sought to mediate in the Ukraine war. "Please accept my deep condolences on the numerous human casualties and large-scale destruction caused by a powerful earthquake in your country," Putin said in his message to Erdogan. "We are ready to provide the necessary assistance in this regard." In a similar message to Assad, Putin said Russia shared "the sadness and pain of those who lost their loved ones" and said Russia was ready to provide help. 8:10 a.m.: Ukraine an EU member in 2025? Probably not.https://t.co/KBwQGIr0Yy 7:45 a.m.: Ukraine's defense ministry is in turmoil as Russia readies an offensive, Reuters reported Monday. Ukraine sent mixed messages over the fate of its defense minister, leaving a key post in its war effort in doubt even as it braces for a new Russian offensive. The questions left dangling over Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov were the first public sign of serious disarray in Ukraine's wartime leadership, until now remarkably united during almost a year of all-out Russian military assault. A day after announcing that Reznikov would be sidelined, a top ally of President Volodymyr Zelenskyy appeared to row back for now, saying no personnel changes in the defense sector would be made this week. David Arakhamia, chief of the parliamentary bloc of Zelenskiy's party, had said the head of military intelligence, Kyrylo Budanov, would take over the defense ministry, while Reznikov would be made minister of strategic industries. But Zelenskyy remained silent on the issue, while Reznikov said on Sunday he had not been informed of any move and would reject the strategic industry job if offered it. The confusion caps a two-week purge of the Kyiv leadership, the biggest shakeup since the Russian invasion. Central and regional officials have been swept from office, security forces raided the home of a billionaire, prosecutors announced a huge fraud case at the biggest oil company and refinery, and ex-officials have been stripped of citizenship. Zelenskyy has touted the crackdown as an opportunity to demonstrate that Kyiv can be a safe steward of billions of dollars of Western aid. But it risks destabilizing the leadership after nearly a year in which Kyiv's political class had solidly united against Russia's invasion. 7:15 a.m.: Russian forces are keeping Ukrainian troops tied down with attacks in the eastern Donbas region as Moscow assembles additional combat power there for an expected offensive in the coming weeks, Ukrainian officials said Monday, according to The Associated Press. Weeks of intense fighting continued to rage around the city of Bakhmut and the nearby towns of Soledar and Vuhledar, Ukraine’s presidential office said. They are located in the Donetsk region, which with neighboring Luhansk region makes up the Donbas region, an industrial area bordering Russia. “The battles for the region are heating up,” Donetsk Gov. Pavlo Kyrylenko said in televised remarks, adding that “the Russians are throwing new units into the battle and eradicating our towns and villages.” In Luhansk, Gov. Serhii Haidai said shelling there had subsided because “the Russians have been saving ammunition for a large-scale offensive.”

6:40 a.m.: Within next 10 days, Russia plans to launch a new large-scale offensive – FT citing unnamed adviser to UA forcesRussia intends to launch an offensive before Ukraine receives Western tanks and weapons, FT writes. Its purpose is occupation of entire Donbas https://t.co/Ac6QA7XPon 6:20 a.m.: Patriot missile batteries that Poland acquired from the U.S. last year have been deployed to the country’s capital Warsaw as part of military exercise, The Associated Press reported, citing Poland’s defense ministry. Poland is taking additional steps to strengthen its defensive capabilities as Russia’s war in neighboring Ukraine enters its second year later this month. At least three ground-to-air missile launchers were seen Monday at Warsaw’s Bemowo airport. Defense Minister Mariusz Blaszczak said on Twitter over the weekend that the redeployment of the missile batteries from their base in Sochaczew, central Poland, to Warsaw was “an important element to the training” of the 3rd Warsaw Brigade of Missile Air Defense. The Patriot batteries are part of Poland’s multibillion dollar armaments purchases from the U.S., South Korea and elsewhere. Poland has also received Patriot batteries from Germany, to boost its air defenses in the east, where a stray missile came from across the border with Ukraine and killed two civilians last year. 6 a.m.: The European Union is planning for Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to attend a summit of its leaders this week, the Financial Times reported on Monday citing people briefed on the plans. Zelenskyy will address a special session of the European Parliament under the proposed plan, which is subject to security concerns, the report said. 5:45 a.m.: Norway's prime minister will on Monday propose that his country provides aid to war-torn Ukraine of some 75 billion Norwegian crown ($7.3 billion) in total over a five-year period, newspaper Verdens Gang reported according to Reuters. 5:20 a.m.: ⚡️Governor: One civilian killed by Russian shelling in Donetsk Oblast on Feb. 5.One civilian was killed by Russian shelling in the town of Bakhmut, Donetsk Oblast, on Feb 5, and another civilian was injured in the region, Donetsk Oblast Governor Pavlo Kyrylenko said. 4:40 a.m.: Russia's deputy foreign minister, Sergei Ryabkov, said on Monday that the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Rafael Grossi, will visit Moscow this week, state media reported according to Reuters. The meeting will focus on the creation of a safety zone around Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, he said, adding that Moscow was counting on a deep and professional discussion. The IAEA — the United Nations' nuclear watchdog — has repeatedly expressed concerns over plant, which has come under repeated shelling since Russia's invasion of Ukraine last year. Ryabkov also said that he discussed the New START nuclear arms control treaty with new United States ambassador Lynne Tracy last week, the Interfax news agency reported according to Reuters. He added that Russia was committed to the treaty but that no date had been set for new talks, citing the conflict in Ukraine. Talks between Moscow and Washington on the New START treaty were scheduled for last November but were called off at the last moment. 4:05 a.m.: Reuters reported that a senior Ukrainian official said on Monday that no personnel changes would be announced at the defense ministry this week, despite saying earlier that defense minister Oleksii Reznikov would be replaced. David Arakhamia, head of President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's parliamentary bloc, said on Sunday that Reznikov would be transferred to another ministerial job. On Monday, he made clear there would not be an immediate reshuffle. "There will be no personnel changes in the defense sector this week," he wrote on the Telegram messaging app, without giving further details. 3:30 a.m.: A drone has exploded outside the Russian city of Kaluga, Reuters reported regional governor Vladislav Shapsha as saying on Monday, adding that no-one was injured in the blast. "It has been established that the drone exploded in the air at an altitude of 50 meters in the forest near the city at five o'clock in the morning," he wrote on Telegram. Kaluga is about 150 kilometers (93 miles) southwest of Moscow and 260 kilometers (162 miles) from the Ukrainian border. The governor did not make clear the source of the drone. Russia has said in the past that Ukrainian drones have flown into its territory and caused damage to civilian infrastructure, an assertion that Kyiv denies. 3 a.m.: A former Israeli prime minister who served briefly as a mediator at the start of Russia’s war with Ukraine says he drew a promise from the Russian president not to kill his Ukrainian counterpart, The Associated Press reported. Former Prime Minister Naftali Bennett became an unlikely intermediary in the war’s first weeks, becoming one of the few Western leaders to meet President Vladimir Putin in a snap trip to Moscow. Bennett’s mediation efforts appear to have done little to end the bloodshed that continues until today. But, his remarks, in an interview posted online late Saturday, shed light on the backroom diplomacy and urgent efforts that were underway to try to bring the conflict to a speedy conclusion in its early days. 2:45 a.m.: About 200,000 Russians have left their homeland for Serbia since the start of the war in Ukraine, The Associated Press reported. Many are seeking a new life in a fraternal Slavic country free from Kremlin oppression. The Balkan country is a close ally of Moscow and has historic, religious and cultural ties. And Russia backs Serbia’s claim over its former province of Kosovo. But it's a complex relationship. Serbia refuses to impose sanctions on Moscow over the invasion but also seeks to join the European Union. Russians who fled their country have held protests against President Vladimir Putin in Belgrade. But they also see pro-Putin propaganda efforts. 2 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 6 February 2023 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/xZDhLskCpY🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/COtwsg8peP 1:30 a.m.: Reuters reported that Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that his country was ready to provide necessary assistance to "friendly" Turkish people in the aftermath of the earthquake that struck the country earlier on Monday. "Shocked by the news about the death and injury of hundreds of people as a result of the earthquake in Turkey," Zelenskyy said on Twitter. "We extend our condolences to the families of the victims and wish the injured a speedy recovery. We are in this moment close to the friendly Turkish people, ready to provide the necessary assistance." 12:35 a.m.: The UK Treasury has signaled that there is no money for defense despite recognizing the urgent need to rearm in the wake of Russia's war in Ukraine, Sky News reported on Sunday citing defense sources. Britain will be unable to offer as many troops as NATO allies would expect to a major new force structure being drawn up by the alliance to bolster its defenses, the report added according to Reuters. 12:01 a.m.: Tonight's abbreviated report focuses on Russian President Vladimir #Putin’s cautious approach to risk-taking after having thrown the dice on launching a full-scale invasion of #Ukraine on February 24, 2022, an act he likely did not see as a risk. https://t.co/diMBsAAL92 pic.twitter.com/2p4BM0ExCT Some information in this report came from The Associated Press and Reuters.