For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia's war on Ukraine. All times EST. 6:05 a.m.: Belarus will this year host three drills of the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO), a Russian-dominated alliance of former Soviet states, Reuters cited the state-run Belta news agency as saying on Monday. It quoted the secretary general of the organization as saying the exercises would be code-named Cooperation, Echelon and Search. 5:35 a.m.: Ukraine was meeting consumers' energy needs on Monday after carrying out repairs to the national power network following the latest wave of Russian air strikes, Energy Minister German Galushchenko said according to Reuters. Galushchenko said emergency repairs had been completed rapidly after Russian attacks on Friday that struck energy facilities across the country. "And today, on the first business day of the week, despite a significant increase in consumption, Ukraine's power system continues to meet the electricity needs of consumers," Galushchenko said in a statement. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy also hailed the repair efforts in an evening video address on Sunday, but said it was too soon to declare victory on the energy front. Natalia Humeniuk, a spokesperson for Ukraine's southern military forces, said the country should ensure it was prepared for further air attacks, possibly on the first anniversary of Russia's invasion on February 24 last year. "If we are talking about the time from one massive missile attack to the next, it's about two weeks, and we can note that from the previous (date) to the next one is exactly February 24," she told Ukrainian television on Monday. "Considering the enemy's commitment to sacred dates, it's necessary to be ready," she said. 5:15 a.m.: NATO is expected to ask its members to raise its ammunition stockpiles which have been badly depleted by the war in Ukraine, as allies try to put arms supplies to Kyiv and their own militaries on a sustainable footing after a year in crisis mode. Reuters had the full report. 4:55 a.m.: Reuters reported that International Olympic Committee (IOC) President Thomas Bach said his organization is not on the wrong side of history after opening the door for Russian and Belarusian athletes to participate in next year's Summer Games in Paris. The IOC received a backlash after setting out a path last month for athletes of both countries to earn slots for the Olympics through Asian qualifying and to compete as neutrals, with no flags or anthems. Athletes from Russia and its neighbor Belarus have been banned from many international competitions in the wake of Moscow's invasion of Ukraine a year ago. In a letter to Bach last week, Ukrainian athletes said the IOC was "on the wrong side of history" after Bach had urged Ukraine to drop threats of a boycott. When asked if the IOC was on the wrong side of history, Bach told reporters on Sunday: "No, history will show who is doing more for peace. The ones who try to keep lines open, to communicate, or the ones who want to isolate or divide. "We're trying to find a solution that is giving justice to the mission of sport, which is to unify, not to contribute to more confrontation, more escalation." Lithuania's sports minister said on Friday a group of 35 countries, including the United States, Germany and Australia, will demand Russian and Belarusian athletes are banned from the 2024 Olympics. Russian Sports Minister Oleg Matytsin was quoted as saying by TASS news agency that the calls were "absolutely unacceptable." Bach, speaking at the Alpine skiing world championships in Courchevel, France, said the IOC stood in "solidarity" with Ukraine's athletes. "With every Ukrainian athlete, we can from a human point of view understand their reactions, we share their suffering," he said. "Every Ukrainian athlete can be rest assured that we are standing in full solidarity with them and that all their comments are taken very, very seriously into consideration." 4:20 a.m.: NATO members reportedly wanted alliance chief Jens Stoltenberg to extend his tenure for the fourth time while Russia wages war in Ukraine, but he is set to leave his post in October.https://t.co/9wY5AyrmXL 3:55 a.m.: A Russian scheme to grant loan payment holidays to troops fighting in Ukraine, and for banks to write off the entire debt if they are killed or maimed, has added to growing pressure for the remaining overseas lenders in Russia to leave. Reuters had the full story. 3:10 a.m.: ⚡️ Deputy PM: Russian forces are draining Kakhovka Reservoir.“This is ecocide,” Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said. “The occupiers are draining the Kakhovka Reservoir. It’s a threat to the environment, water supply, and agriculture of Zaporizhzhia and Kherson oblasts.” 2:20 a.m.: The United States has told its citizens to leave Russia immediately due to the war in Ukraine and the risk of arbitrary arrest or harassment by Russian law enforcement agencies, Reuters reported. "U.S. citizens residing or traveling in Russia should depart immediately," the U.S. embassy in Moscow said. "Exercise increased caution due to the risk of wrongful detentions." "Do not travel to Russia," the embassy said. The United States has repeatedly warned its citizens to leave Russia. The last such public warning was in September after President Vladimir Putin ordered a partial mobilization. "Russian security services have arrested U.S. citizens on spurious charges, singled out U.S. citizens in Russia for detention and harassment, denied them fair and transparent treatment, and convicted them in secret trials or without presenting credible evidence," the embassy said. "Russian authorities arbitrarily enforce local laws against U.S. citizen religious workers and have opened questionable criminal investigations against U.S. citizens engaged in religious activity." Russia has opened a criminal case against a United States citizen on suspicion of espionage, the Federal Security Service (FSB) said in January. 2 a.m.: ⚡️ Ukrainian rescuers in Turkey clear rubble from 94 sites.Ukrainian rescuers in Turkey have examined 224 sites and cleared rubble from 94 in the aftermath of the recent earthquakes, the State Emergency Service said on Feb. 12. 1:45 a.m.: Russian supplied India with around $13 billion of arms during the past five years, and New Delhi has orders placed with Moscow for weapons and military equipment exceeding $10 billion, Russian state news agencies reported late on Sunday, according to Reuters. India is the world's biggest buyer of Russian arms, accounting for around 20% of Moscow's current order book, and New Delhi has not explicitly condemned Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called for dialog and diplomacy to solve the conflict, now in its 12th month. Scores of Western countries imposed sanctions on Russia, including on arms, in response to the invasion, which Moscow calls a "special military operation." India, China and some Southeast Asian countries have maintained their interest in buying Russian arms, according to Dmitry Shugayev, the head of Russia's Federal Service for Military-Technical Cooperation, the agencies reported. "Despite the unprecedented pressure on India from Western countries led by the United States in connection with Russia's special operation in Ukraine, it continues to be one of Russia's main partners in the field of military-technical cooperation," Interfax agency quoted Shugayev as saying. Annual arms exports were about $14-15 billion, and the order book has remained steady at around $50 billion, Interfax reported. 1:20 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 13 February 2023 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/ixYOQYQdXc🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/mmbgKuxUpo 12:40 a.m.: #Russia has partially regained the ability to conduct successful information campaigns in support of strategic objectives and even discrete operational aims. These campaigns have continuously aimed to deter or slow Western support to #Ukraine.https://t.co/JMF7hjXnuB pic.twitter.com/Dk9XNAF7AZ 12:01 a.m.: Specialists from Russia's defense ministry are building a water pipeline system that would connect the country's Rostov region bordering Ukraine with the Donbas region inside Ukraine, the state TASS news agency reported late on Sunday, according to Reuters. Moscow last year claimed the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, which make up the broader Donbas region in Ukraine, as "republics" of Russia, in a move condemned by most members of the United Nations as illegal. The project, to be completed in the next few months, will have the capacity to carry 300,000 cubic meters of water per day and will include two 200-km (124-mile) lines, TASS reported, citing the defense ministry. "More than 2,600 specialists ... from the Russian Ministry of Defence and over 1,000 units of equipment are involved around the clock in the construction," TASS cited an unnamed defense representative as saying. The structure will pass through the territory of the Rostov region in Russia and into the Donetsk region to the Severskiy Donets-Donbas Canal, which extends from the Donets River near the village of Raihorodok to the city of Donetsk. The water situation in the Donbas region, which has few resources, has been critical. The region depends on large-scale pipelines that have been damaged by nearly a year of fighting and which require electricity that is often interrupted. Some information in this report came from Reuters.