For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia's war on Ukraine. All times EST. 4:35 a.m.: ⚡️General Staff: Ukraine repels 81 Russian attacks over past 24 hours.The Ukrainian military repelled 81 Russian attacks over the past 24 hours in northeastern and eastern Ukraine, the General Staff of Ukraine's Armed Forces reported in its morning update on Feb. 27. 4 a.m.: The United Nations Human Rights chief Volker Turk warned on Monday that human rights gains made in recent decades were being reined back and even reversed, citing Russia's "senseless" invasion of Ukraine as a current example of oppression. "Much of the progress made over decades is being reined back and even reversed in some parts...," High Commissioner Turk said in a speech on the opening day of the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva attended by more than 100 ministers and heads of state, Reuters reported. He called for countries to work to overcome their differences and create a "new world-wide consensus on human rights". 3:30 a.m.: Reuters added some context to the reports that Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said on Monday that talks with Sweden and Finland regarding their NATO membership bids would resume on March 9, after being suspended in January in the wake of a Koran-burning protest in Stockholm. Turkey had previously canceled a trilateral mechanism with Sweden and Finland on their applications to join NATO after Rasmus Paludan, leader of the Danish far-right political party Hard Line, burned a copy of the Koran outside the Turkish embassy in Stockholm in January. "My colleagues will attend the meeting that will be held on March 9," Cavusoglu told a press conference in Ankara, adding that the meeting would be held in Brussels. But he said Sweden was still not fulfilling its obligations under the memorandum signed at a NATO summit in Madrid last June, even though NATO's secretary-general and other allies have said Stockholm has changed its legislation. "Unfortunately, we have not seen satisfactory steps from Sweden on the implementation of the Madrid memorandum," Cavusoglu said. "It is not possible for us to say "yes" to Sweden's NATO bid before we see these steps." Sweden and Finland applied last year to join the North Atlantic defense alliance after Russia invaded Ukraine, but Sweden in particular has faced unexpected objections from Turkey. Ankara accuses Stockholm of harboring what it considers members of terrorist groups, and has demanded their extradition as a step towards giving Sweden's NATO membership its green light. The United States and other NATO countries are hoping that the two Nordic countries become members of the alliance at a NATO summit due to be held in July 11 in Lithuania's capital Vilnius. While Ankara has signaled it could approve Finland, it has given no assurances that it will give Sweden's bid the green light by then. 3:15 a.m.: China has always maintained communication with all sides in the Russia-Ukraine conflict, including Kyiv, a foreign ministry spokesperson told a regular news briefing on Monday. Reuters reported that Mao Ning was answering a question on Ukraine's Volodymyr Zelenskyy saying he would welcome talks with China. In another question on Zelenskyy saying that he planned to speak to China President Xi Jinping, Mao said "China's position on the Ukraine crisis is consistent and very clear." "The core is to call for peace and promote dialog and promote a political solution to the crisis. We have always maintained communication with the sides involved including Ukraine," Mao said. Zelenskyy said on Friday he plans to meet Xi but did not say when such a meeting might take place. 2:40 a.m.: Agence France-Presse reported that Turkey has said that talks over Sweden’s and Finland’s NATO bid have been planned for March 9. 2:15 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 27 February 2023Find out more about Defence Intelligence: https://t.co/Cg1AlRQ2SI🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/0cX28D5RdE 1:45 a.m.: Russia's war in Ukraine looms large as the UN Human Rights Council meets Monday, with calls for unity in condemning Moscow and extending a probe into war crimes in the conflict. Days after the United Nations General Assembly in New York voted overwhelmingly to demand Russia immediately withdraw from Ukraine, Moscow's war is expected to dominate the opening of the top UN rights body's main annual session in Geneva. "We're looking for this session to show, as the UN General Assembly showed... that the world stands side-by-side with Ukraine," British ambassador Simon Manley said at an event Friday marking the one-year anniversary of Russia's full-scale invasion. The meeting, which is due to last a record six weeks, will be the first presided over by new UN rights chief Volker Turk, who kicks the session off early Monday. Agence France-Presse had the full report. 1:20 a.m.: NEW: Tonight's abbreviated #Ukraine update focuses on #Putin’s attempt to avoid ordering involuntary mobilization in #Russia by launching a series of irregular volunteer force generation campaigns since late May 2022 and the consequences of that attempt. https://t.co/P91egwVy6o pic.twitter.com/3mOeD3QbKG 12:40 a.m.: Russia's former president and an ally of President Vladimir Putin said in remarks published on Monday that the continued arms supply to Kyiv risks a global nuclear catastrophe, reiterating his threat of nuclear war over Ukraine, according to Reuters. Dmitry Medvedev's apocalyptic rhetoric has been seen as an attempt to deter the U.S-led NATO military alliance and Kyiv's Western allies from getting even more involved in the year-old war that has dealt Moscow setbacks on the battlefield. The latest comments by Medvedev, who serves as deputy chairman of Putin's powerful security council, follow Putin's nuclear warning last week and his Sunday remarks casting Moscow's confrontation with the West as an existential battle for the survival of Russia and the Russian people. "Of course, the pumping in of weapons can continue .... and prevent any possibility of reviving negotiations," Medvedev said in remarks published in the daily Izvestia. "Our enemies are doing just that, not wanting to understand that their goals will certainly lead to a total fiasco. Loss for everyone. A collapse. Apocalypse. Where you forget for centuries about your former life, until the rubble ceases to emit radiation." 12:01 a.m.: Belarus's exiled opposition said Sunday that partisans had destroyed a Russian plane at an airstrip near the capital Minsk, according to Agence France-Presse. "Partisans... confirmed a successful special operation to blow up a rare Russian plane at the airfield in Machulishchy near Minsk," tweeted Franak Viacorka, a close adviser of opposition figurehead Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya. "This is the most successful diversion since the beginning of 2022," he added. The two Belarusians who carried out the operation had used drones, he said, adding that they had already left the country and were safe. Viacorka did not say what kind of Russian plane had been targeted but said it was worth 330 million euros. According to news media close to the opposition, it was an A-50 surveillance plane. "I am proud of all Belarusians who continue to resist the Russian hybrid occupation of Belarus & fight for the freedom of Ukraine," Tsikhanouskaya wrote on Twitter in response to the news. AFP reported that it was not possible to independently verify the operation and the Russian army has for the moment made no statement. Belarus, Russia's only ally in Europe against Kyiv, has not taken a direct role in Moscow's attack on Ukraine, but did allow territory to be used by Russian forces for their 2022 invasion. Kyiv says Russia has also used Belarusian air strips as a base from which to launch strikes on Ukraine. In recent months, Belarus and Russia have held a series of military operations and Ukraine has expressed fears that Minsk will enter the conflict. Some information in this report came from Agence France-Presse and Reuters.