For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST. 6 a.m.: The Polish ruling party leader, Jarosław Kaczyński, has made a donation to the Ukrainian army to settle a defamation case with a political rival, The Associated Press reported. Kaczyński was ordered by a court in December to pay Radek Sikorski more than $162,000 (700,000 zlotys) to cover the costs of publishing an apology for calling him a “diplomatic traitor.” Kaczyński made the comment in 2016 in connection to the 2010 plane crash near Smolensk, Russia, that killed Kaczynski’s brother, then-President Lech Kaczyński, and 95 others. Sikorski was foreign minister at the time of the disaster. Kaczynski said Tuesday that he had paid a smaller sum to the Ukrainian army to settle the dispute. 5:25 a.m.: State security officials searched the home of billionaire businessman Ihor Kolomoiskiy on Wednesday as part of an investigation into possible financial crimes, several Ukrainian media outlets reported, citing an unnamed official source, according to Reuters. The State Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) did not immediately reply to a request for comment about the reports. Kolomoiskiy could not be reached for comment. Kolomoiskiy is one of Ukraine's richest men and a one-time ally of President Volodymyr Zelenskyy who launched a crackdown on wealthy businessmen known as "oligarchs" in late 2021, before Russia invaded its neighbor last year. Kolomoiskiy, who is from the central city of Dnipro and owns an array of assets including one of Ukraine's most influential television channels, backed Zelenskyy's election campaign in 2019. Ukrainska Pravda, one of at least three outlets reporting the raid on Kolomoiskiy's home, said the move related to an investigation into the alleged embezzlement of oil products and evasion of customs duties. The search was carried out by officials from the SBU and the Economic Security Bureau of Ukraine. 5 a.m.: Austrian President Alexander Van der Bellen arrived in Kyiv on Wednesday and was expected to hold talks with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy. 4:50 a.m.: Reuters reported that prominent Russian journalist Alexander Nevzorov was sentenced in absentia to eight years in jail by a Moscow court on Wednesday after it found him guilty of spreading "fake news" about the Russian army. Investigators opened a case against Nevzorov last year for posts on social media in which he accused Russia's armed forces of deliberately shelling a maternity hospital in the Ukrainian city of Mariupol, an assertion Moscow said was false. The court said in a statement that he would serve his term in a penal colony if he ever returned to Russia, and was banned from managing internet content for four years. Nevzorov, who runs a YouTube channel with close to 2 million subscribers, called the investigation against him ridiculous and left the country with his wife in March last year. He was granted Ukrainian citizenship in June after publicly denouncing Russia's invasion, calling the war a "crime" and Ukraine its victim. Eight days after invading Ukraine last February, Russia passed a law setting jail terms of up to 15 years for those convicted of intentionally spreading "fake" news about Russia's military. Russia has since blocked access to news sites publishing content at odds with Moscow's official line on the conflict, while dozens of Russian and international news outlets have left the country. 4:05 a.m.: Reuters reported that NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg on Wednesday stressed the importance of NATO's working closely with partners in the Indo-Pacific, saying Europe could not ignore what happens in East Asia because the global security is interconnected. "Working with partners around the world, especially in the Indo-Pacific, is part of the answer to a more dangerous and unpredictable world," Stoltenberg said at an event hosted by Keio University. "The war in Ukraine demonstrates how security is interconnected. It demonstrates that what happens in Europe has a consequence for East Asia, and what happens in East Asia matters to Europe," he said, adding that "the idea China doesn't matter for NATO doesn't work." Stoltenberg made the comments as part of a visit to Japan, during which he pledged to strengthen ties with Tokyo to navigate an increasingly tense security environment triggered by Russia's invasion of Ukraine and its growing military cooperation with China. Although he said China was not an adversary, the NATO chief said the country was becoming a "more and more authoritarian power" that was displaying assertive behavior, threatening Taiwan, and developing military capabilities that could also reach NATO countries. "We are more than ready to further strengthen and expand the partnership with countries in this region," he added. China rejected the claims by Stoltenberg, saying that it has always been a defender of peace and stability. "On the one hand, NATO claims that its position as a regional defensive alliance remains unchanged, while on the other hand, it continues to break through traditional defense zones and areas, continuously strengthen military security ties with Asia-Pacific countries and exaggerate the threat of China," Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Mao Ning said in a regular briefing held Wednesday. "I want to emphasize that the Asia-Pacific is not a battlefield for geopolitical rivalry and confrontation between the camps with Cold War mentality is not welcomed," she added. Before his stop in Japan, Stoltenberg visited South Korea and urged Seoul to increase military support to Ukraine, giving similar warnings about rising tensions with China. China has criticized NATO's efforts to expand its alliances in Asia. Russia, which calls its invasion of Ukraine a "special operation," has repeatedly cast NATO's expansion as a threat to its security. 3:30 a.m.: A former member of the Russian private military contractor Wagner Group who's seeking asylum in Norway has apologized to Ukrainians living in the Scandinavian country, who object to his presence there, The Associated Press reported. "I'm a scoundrel to you, but I only ask you to take into account that I have come to realize that, albeit belatedly, and I spoke against all that," Andrey Medvedev said in an excerpt from his interview to Norwegian broadcaster NRK that was posted online Tuesday. "I ask you not to condemn me, and in any case I apologize." Medvedev who has said that he fears for his life if he returns to Russia, lives in a center for asylum-seekers in Oslo. He illegally crossed into Norway, which has a 198-kilometer-long border with Russia, earlier this month. Medvedev has said that he left the Wagner Group after his contract was extended beyond the July-November timeline without his consent. He said he's willing to testify about any war crimes he witnessed and denied participating in any himself. 3 a.m.: 2:20 a.m.: Spain plans to send between four and six Leopard 2A4 tanks to Ukraine, newspaper El Pais reported on Wednesday, citing unidentified government sources, according to Reuters. 2 a.m.: 1:40 a.m.: Algerian President Abdelmadjid Tebboune plans to visit Russia in May, his office said Tuesday after he spoke on the phone with his counterpart in Moscow, Vladimir Putin, Agence France-Presse reported. Algeria has had warm ties with Moscow for decades, but Africa's biggest gas exporter has also become crucial for Europe's energy supplies in the fallout of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Tebboune and Putin discussed "bilateral relations between the two countries, especially energy cooperation," the Algerian presidency said in a statement. Algeria, which pumps gas directly to Spain and Italy via undersea pipelines, has in recent months hosted a string of top European officials, including French President Emmanuel Macron in August, seeking to find alternatives to Russian energy supplies. 1:10 a.m.: Lithuania's foreign minister on Tuesday urged European Union countries not to host Russian ambassadors, as diplomatic tensions between the Baltics and Moscow rise following the invasion of Ukraine, Agence France-Presse reported. "There is little use in having an ambassador, a Russian ambassador, in any European capital," Gabrielius Landsbergis told a press conference in Riga. "In most cases it's no longer a diplomatic institution, it's an institution of propaganda, covering up crimes of war and in general promoting a genocidal agenda," he said. Lithuania downgraded diplomatic relations with Russia, which included expelling Moscow's ambassador, in April last year after the massacre in the Ukrainian town of Bucha was discovered. Last week, Estonia said it would expel the Russian ambassador in a tit-for-tat move after the Kremlin ordered Estonia's ambassador to leave. Fellow Baltic state Latvia said it was also expelling the Russian ambassador in solidarity with Estonia, adding that it would withdraw its own ambassador from Moscow. 12:55 a.m.: The Slovak parliament approved on Tuesday plans to shorten its four-year term by five months and to hold an early election on September 30 after the center-right Cabinet lost a no-confidence vote and parties failed to form a new majority administration, Reuters reported. The government of Prime Minister Eduard Heger lost the no-confidence vote in December after a former coalition party joined the opposition, which accuses the Cabinet of not doing enough to help people with the rising cost of living. The election will see a clash between pro-Western liberal and conservative parties and two leftist formations including the Smer party of ex-prime minister Robert Fico who opposes sending weapons to neighboring Ukraine and has adopted a skeptical stance on Western sanctions against Russia similar to that of Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orban. Slovakia, a NATO and EU member, has so far been a strong backer of Ukraine, supplying infantry vehicles, artillery and a battery of the S-300 air defense system. 12:40 a.m.: The United States is readying more than $2 billion worth of military aid for Ukraine that is expected to include longer-range rockets for the first time as well as other munitions and weapons, two U.S. officials briefed on the matter told Reuters on Tuesday. The weapons aid is expected to be announced as soon as this week, the officials said. It is also expected to include support equipment for Patriot air defense systems, precision guided munitions and Javelin anti-tank weapons, they added. One of the officials said a portion of the package, expected to be $1.725 billion, would come from a fund known as the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative, or USAI, which allows President Joe Biden's administration to get weapons from industry rather than from existing U.S. weapons stocks. The USAI funds would go toward the purchase of a new weapon, the Ground Launched Small Diameter Bomb, or GLSDB, made by Boeing, which have a range of 150 kilometers. The United States has rebuffed Ukraine's requests for the 297 kilometers the Army Tactical Missile System, or ATACMS, a surface-to-surface long-range missile system. The longer range of the GLSDB glide bomb could allow Ukraine to hit targets that have been out of reach and help it continue pressing its counterattacks by disrupting Russia further behind its lines. 12:20 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Tuesday said he was not finished shuffling the ranks of senior officials and that anyone failing to perform according to strict standards faced dismissal, Reuters reported. Last week Zelenskyy responded to reports of official corruption, 11 months into the war, by firing more than a dozen functionaries. He vowed there would be zero tolerance for wrongdoing or mismanagement. Zelenskyy was elected by a landslide in 2019 on pledges to change the way Ukraine was run and eliminate corruption, an endemic problem in post-Soviet society. In his latest remarks, the president said his administration was planning to introduce changes as part of attempts to proceed with unusually rapid and complex negotiations to secure European Union membership. "What is very important is that we are preparing new reforms in Ukraine," he said. "These are reforms which in many aspects will change the social, legal and political realities by making them more humane, more transparent and more effective." 12:01 a.m.: The U.S. International Development Finance Corporation has launched an initiative to mobilize $250 million to boost access to capital for Ukrainian small- and medium-sized enterprises during the war, CEO Scott Nathan said on Tuesday, according to Reuters. Ukrainian SMEs have struggled to get access to finance because of security risks that have deterred private investment in Ukraine since Russia's invasion almost a year ago. Ukraine's economy shrank by about one third last year. Nathan said DFC would provide financing to Ukrainian commercial banks for lending to SMEs. "I am here in Kyiv today because we are investing now to help keep Ukrainian businesses moving forward despite difficult circumstances. I am convinced that new DFC investments here will mobilize well over $1 billion in private sector capital to support the economy of Ukraine," Nathan said during his second visit to Ukraine in two months. Some information in this report came from Reuters, The Associated Press and Agence France-Presse.