Last year, the top winners at the Screen Actors Guild Awards all corresponded exactly with the Academy Awards winners. Will Sunday's SAGs offer the same preview? The 29th annual Screen Actors Guild Awards will begin at 8 p.m. EST Sunday and be streamed live on Netflix's YouTube page. After the awards, presented by the film and television acting guild SAG-AFRTA, lost their broadcast home at TNT/TBS, Netflix signed on to stream the ceremony. Though future editions will be streamed live directly on Netflix, this year's show, at Fairmont Century Plaza in Los Angeles, will be on the streaming service's YouTube page and its social media channels. “Everything Everywhere All at Once" and “The Banshees of Inisherin” come in with a co-leading five nominations. Each film is up for the Guild's top award, best ensemble, along with “Babylon,” “The Fabelmans” and “Women Talking.” The SAG Awards are considered one of the most reliable Oscar bellwethers. Actors make up the biggest percentage of the film academy, so their choices have the largest sway. Last year, “CODA” triumphed at SAG before winning best picture at the Oscars, while Ariana DeBose, Will Smith, Jessica Chastain and Troy Kotsur all won both a SAG Award and an Academy Award. With both supporting categories seemingly sown up by Angela Bassett ("Black Panther: Wakanda Forever") and Ke Huy Quan ("Everything Everywhere All at Once"), Sunday's SAG Award could offer the most clarity in the lead acting awards. Best actress could go to either Michelle Yeoh ("Everything Everywhere All at Once") or Cate Blanchett ("Tár"). While Andrea Riseborough's much-debated campaign led to an Academy Awards nomination, some of the most notable Oscar snubs are up for best actress. Though nominated by the actors’ guild, Danielle Deadwyler ("Till") and Viola Davis ("The Woman King") were overlooked by the academy, prompting some to decry racial bias in Hollywood. Ana de Armas ("Blonde") is also nominated. In the best actor category, Austin Butler (“Elvis”), Brendan Fraser ("The Whale") and Colin Farrell ("The Banshees of Inisherin") all are considered contenders with a realistic shot of winning. The Guild also nominated Adam Sandler ("Hustle") and Bill Nighy ("Living"). On the TV side, nominated for best ensemble in a drama series are: “Better Call Saul,” “The Crown,” “Ozark,” “Severance” and “The White Lotus.” Up for best comedy series ensemble are the casts of “Abbott Elementary,” “Barry,” “The Bear,” “Hacks” and “Only Murders in the Building.” Presenters on Sunday include Zendaya (who scored her first SAG nomination for her leading performance in “Euphoria,” Aubrey Plaza, Jenna Ortega, Adam Scott, Chastain and Jeff Bridges. Sally Field is to receive the SAG lifetime achievement award, an honor to be presented to her by Andrew Garfield.