For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia's war on Ukraine. All times EST. 5:10 a.m.: The Institute for the Study of War, a U.S. think tank, said in its latest Ukraine assessment that Russian President Vladimir Putin seems more concerned with appealing to ultranationalist pro-war ideologues with meaningless gestures than with presenting any new approach to achieving the Kremlin’s objectives in Ukraine. Russian forces conducted ground attacks near Svatove and Kreminna, around Bakhmut, in the Avdiivka-Donetsk City area, and in western Donetsk Oblast. Russian authorities announced that they completed the repair of the Kerch Strait Bridge road spans ahead of schedule. 4:11 a.m.: China has called for a cease-fire between Ukraine and Russia and the opening of peace talks as part of a 12-point proposal to end the conflict, The Associated Press reported. The plan issued Friday morning by the Foreign Ministry also urges the end of Western sanctions imposed on Russia, measures to ensure nuclear facilities, the establishment of humanitarian corridors for the evacuation of civilians and steps to ensure the export of grain, after disruptions caused global food prices to spike. China has claimed to be neutral in the conflict, but it has a "no limits" relationship with Russia and has refused to criticize its invasion of Ukraine or even refer to it as such, while accusing the West of provoking the conflict and "fanning the flames" by providing Ukraine with defensive arms. The peace proposal mainly elaborated on long-held Chinese positions, including referring to the need that all countries' "sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity be effectively guaranteed." 3:11 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry said that after Russia failed to take over Ukraine in 2022, it's now probably aiming for a war of attrition, counting on its larger population and greater resources to eventually overcome Ukraine. 2:07 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Thursday expressed confidence in his country's victory over invading Russian forces, as the United Nations marked the eve of the war's first anniversary by voting overwhelmingly to demand Moscow withdraw. Since the war started, Western leaders have rushed to support Kyiv, and G-7 ministers discussed new sanctions on Russia Thursday, while the White House said Washington would announce "sweeping" new measures. Zelenskyy vowed to keep up the fight as Ukraine prepared to mark one year since the invasion on Friday. "We have not broken down, we have overcome many ordeals and we will prevail," Zelensky said on social media, according to Agence France-Presse. "We will hold to account all those who brought this evil, this war to our land." 1:07 a.m.: G-7 finance chiefs pressed the IMF on Thursday to urgently provide more aid to war-stricken Ukraine on the eve of the first anniversary of Russia's invasion, Agence France-Presse reported. After talks in India, the group urged the International Monetary Fund "to deliver a credible, ambitious, fully financed and appropriately conditioned IMF program by the end of March 2023." French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire previously said he wanted the IMF to provide $15 billion over four years. The G-7 said that for 2023, based on Ukraine's needs, it had increased its commitment of budget and economic support to $39 billion. It added that sanctions so far have "significantly undermined Russia's capacity to wage its illegal war" and that the G-7 would "take further actions as needed." 12:02 a.m.: Global trade grew more than expected last year despite the upheaval caused by the Russia-Ukraine war, as badly affected countries managed to switch suppliers or products, the World Trade Organization said Thursday, Reuters reported. The global trade watchdog had forecast just 3% growth for 2022 as the conflict caused major disruptions to exports including wheat and fuels. However, WTO Chief Economist Ralph Ossa, presenting its latest analysis of the war's impact on trade, said global trade had "held up well." The WTO did not give the figure for last year, saying the data would be available in April. Overall, Ukraine's exports collapsed by 30% last year in value terms, the report showed. During the same period, Russia's exports increased by 15.6% because of higher prices for fuels, fertilizers and cereals, the WTO said. However, the report said its overall export volumes "might have slightly declined." Some information in this report came from Reuters and Agence France-Presse.