For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST. 6 a.m.: Chinese social media company TikTok on Thursday pledged to do more to tackle disinformation on its platform by adding more safety features and broadening its fact-checking measures, spurred by the role played by state-controlled media and the war in Ukraine, Reuters reported. Presenting its progress report on what it did to live up to a beefed-up EU code of practice on disinformation in the past six months, the company acknowledged the need to step up its efforts. "While we're proud to be providing this level of granular detail for the first time, we recognize that there is more work to be done. In the coming months, we're investing in a number of initiatives," Caroline Greer, director of public policy and government relations, said in a blogpost. TikTok would expand its state-controlled media labels, ramp up action against disinformation linked to Ukraine, expand its fact-checking program across Europe to include more language coverage, and scale up the volume of claims it fact-checked, she said. The company would also strengthen its approach to disinformation in its advertising policies. TikTok said in the past six months it removed 191 adverts that breached its ban on political actors placing advertising on its platform and connected people to authoritative sources of information on COVID-19, the Holocaust, the war in Ukraine and other topics. 5:40 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy thanked the European Parliament on Thursday for the help Ukraine has been receiving from the EU to defend itself against the Russian invasion, before joining a summit of EU leaders to ask for more weapons, according to Reuters. Having won promises of Western battle tanks in recent weeks, Ukrainian officials are now focused on trying to secure the supply of longer-range rockets and fighter jets. "Thank you," Zelenskyy told EU lawmakers, who gave him a long-standing ovation, cheering and applauding, some of them wearing the blue and yellow colors of the Ukrainian flag. "We are defending ourselves in the battlefield, we Ukrainians, together with you," he said, adding that his country together with Europe was "defending ourselves against (the) biggest anti-European force of the modern world." While Zelenskyy is unlikely to leave with immediate pledges to satisfy his requests, the visit gives him a chance to press his case in person with all the EU's 27 national leaders for the first time since Russia invaded his country on Feb. 24, 2022. He did not repeat Ukraine's demand for jets in his speech to the European parliament. Ukrainian officials are also pushing for membership talks within months. But while some EU member countries are keen to give Ukraine the morale boost that would come with starting talks to join the bloc, others are much more cautious. They have stressed would-be members need to meet a range of criteria — such as cracking down on corruption — before they can even start negotiations. 5:15 a.m.: Reuters reported that EU lawmakers gave Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy a long standing ovation before he spoke to the assembly, cheering and applauding him, some of them wearing the blue and yellow colors of the Ukrainian flags in ribbons clipped to their jackets. European Parliament chief Roberta Metsola backed Ukraine's call for more weapons. "We know the sacrifice your people have endured for Europe and we must honor it not only with words but with action," she said, adding that this should include "the jets you need to protect the liberty too many have taken for granted." 4:40 a.m.: The European Union will deliver more military support to Ukraine, Reuters reported the EU'S foreign policy chief Josep Borrell reaffirmed on Thursday, as EU leaders arrived for a summit. Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is preparing to lobby European leaders on Thursday at the summit in Brussels for more weapons in the fight against Russia and a quick start to EU membership talks for his country. 4:35 a.m.: Welcome home, welcome to the EU @ZelenskyyUA. pic.twitter.com/0Jww2dDKdI 4:25 a.m.: 🇪🇺🇺🇦 Welcome to Brussels, dear @ZelenskyyUa The heart of the European family, in which Ukraine belongs.We will support Ukraine every step of the way towards our Union. pic.twitter.com/eELXeZYmM5 4:15 a.m.: A historic day for Europe.Proud to announce that the President of Ukraine @ZelenskyyUA will be at @Europarl_EN this morning.To address the people of Europe from the House of European democracy.🇪🇺🇺🇦 4 a.m.: Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov is expected to meet Thursday in Khartoum with Sudan's military rulers on Russia and other matters, the Associated Press reported, citing the country’s state-run SUNA news agency. Along with Sudan-Russia ties, the talks were expected to focus on Khartoum’s role with affairs in its neighboring conflict-stricken countries, including Chad, South Sudan and Central African Republic, according to Sudan's acting Foreign Minister Ali al-Sadiq. He offered no further details. Lavrov’s visit to Sudan comes as senior diplomats from the U.S. and other European nations conclude two days of talks with Sudanese military leaders and pro-democracy groups to push for a final agreement to restore the country’s transition to democracy. An October 2021 military coup derailed Sudan’s short-lived, democratic transition. It came after the removal of longtime ruler Omar al-Bashir in April 2019 amid a popular uprising against his Islamist-backed repressive rule. Late last year, the generals reached an initial deal with major pro-democracy groups to establish a civilian government. Internationally-backed talks were still underway to achieve a final agreement. Lavrov’s visit is part of a multi-leg Africa trip that has taken him to Mali and Mauritania. It is Lavrov's second trip to Africa this year as Russia seeks to maximize its interests on the continent amid rising global interest in Africa's rich resources. 3:30 a.m.: Russia's Wagner mercenary group has stopped recruiting prisoners to fight in Ukraine, Wagner's founder Yevgeny Prigozhin said on Thursday, according to both Reuters and Agence France-Presse. "The recruitment of prisoners by the Wagner private military company has completely stopped," Prigozhin said in a response to a request for comment from a Russian media outlet published on social media. "We are fulfilling all our obligations to those who work for us now," he said. Wagner began recruiting prisoners in Russia's sprawling penal system in summer 2022, with Prigozhin, a catering entrepreneur who served nine years in prison during the Soviet Union, offering convicts a pardon if they survived six months in Ukraine. Wagner has not provided information on how many convicts joined its ranks, but Russian penal service figures published in November showed the country's prison population dropping by over 20,000 between August and November, the largest drop in over a decade. According to figures published in January, the decline had largely stopped. In December, Reuters reported that the U.S. intelligence community believes that Wagner had 40,000 convict fighters deployed in Ukraine, making up the vast majority of the group's personnel in the country. 3:15 a.m.: SpaceX has taken steps to prevent Ukraine's military from using the company's Starlink satellite internet service to control drones in the region, SpaceX's president said Wednesday, according to Reuters. SpaceX's Starlink satellite internet service, which has provided Ukraine's military with broadband communications in its defense against Russia's military, was "never, never meant to be weaponized," Gwynne Shotwell, SpaceX's president and chief operating officer, said during a conference in Washington, D.C. "However, Ukrainians have leveraged it in ways that were unintentional and not part of any agreement," she said. Speaking later with reporters, Shotwell referred to reports that the Ukrainian military had used the Starlink service to control drones. Ukraine has made effective use of unmanned aircraft for spotting enemy positions, targeting long-range fires and dropping bombs. "There are things that we can do to limit their ability to do that," she said, referring to Starlink's use with drones. "There are things that we can do and have done." Shotwell declined to say what measures SpaceX had taken. 2:40 a.m.: Lithuanian actor Viaceslavas Mickevicius and a group of volunteers are producing stoves out of old car rims to send to Ukraine to provide heating for people in need. By @currenttimetv: pic.twitter.com/iKc8XcmJf8 2:20 a.m.: Russia is looking at introducing a one-off, voluntary windfall tax on big business, Reuters reported Wednesday, citing sources, as the country's monthly revenues from oil and gas drop to their lowest levels since 2020. Three sources familiar with the discussions later told Reuters that authorities were considering a one-off budget contribution from businesses of about 200-250 billion rubles ($2.8-$3.5 billion). The price of Russian oil URL-E has fallen around 20% since early December, when Western countries set a $60 price cap on Russian oil exports. Urals oil is trading around $56 a barrel, much lower than the $70 needed to balance the budget. The finance ministry said last week that it was trebling its daily sales of foreign currency to cover the shortfall, but analysts have warned that tax rises are inevitable if Russia is going to continue ramping up defense spending. 1:45 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 9 February 2023 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/vrOFArukPg🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/6Sc2wfJpqC 1:20 a.m.: Excellent discussions with @SecBlinken @SecDef Austin & NatSec advisor @jakejsullivan on our continued support to #Ukraine & global security challenges. Thanked them for #US leadership. #NATO stands united at this critical moment. pic.twitter.com/wgjJzwiYw2 12:50 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and French President Emmanuel Macron will travel together to attend a European Union summit later on Thursday, Macron's office said in a statement, according to Reuters and Agence France-Presse. Zelenskyy takes his mini-tour of European capitals to Brussels on Thursday, aiming to push European Union leaders for more weapons in the fight against Russia's invasion and for a quick start to EU membership talks. Zelenskyy, who visited London and Paris on Wednesday, is expected to attend a summit of EU leaders and address the European Parliament during his trip to the Belgian capital. 12:30 a.m.: NEW: Russian forces have regained the initiative in #Ukraine and have begun their next major offensive in #Luhansk Oblast. 🧵(1/8)https://t.co/RJk789ogNT pic.twitter.com/imKBU7d5Rq 12:01 a.m.: Russian consumer demand contracted at its fastest pace in seven years in 2022 and real disposable incomes fell, data released on Wednesday showed according to Reuters, as the country's population felt the effects of its dimming economic prospects. Russia's export-dependent economy has withstood the impact of sanctions better than first expected, but still suffered a GDP contraction of around 2.5%, as the West imposed restrictions in an effort to punish Moscow over its actions in Ukraine. Although its economic outlook this year is not so gloomy, Russia faces a labor market shortage, lower oil and gas revenues as price caps and embargoes kick in, as well as a sharply widening budget deficit, 2023 looks set to present new challenges for the government. Real disposable incomes fell 1% in 2022, preliminary data from the Rosstat federal statistics service showed. Real wages, which are adjusted for inflation, rose 0.3% year-on-year in November, just the second positive reading since March. Some information in this report came from Reuters, The Associated Press and Agence France-Presse.