For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia's war on Ukraine. All times EST. 12:05 p.m.: She is from Ukraine and he is from Russia. Their love blossomed online, but with their nations at war, the odds of carrying on their relationship were stacked against them. Even so, it didn't take long for the young couple to beat the odds. https://t.co/PiDdoVgkiF 11:50 a.m.: As Vitalii Khroniuk lay facedown on the ground taking cover from Russian artillery fire, the Ukrainian solider had just one regret: He had never had a child, The Associated Press reported. Aware that he could die at any moment, the 29-year-old decided to try cryopreservation — the process of freezing sperm or eggs that some Ukrainian soldiers are turning to as they face the possibility that they might never go home. “It’s not scary to die, but it’s scary when you don’t leave anyone behind,” said Khroniuk, who had quickly joined the war effort, without a thought about his future, when Russia invaded Ukraine nearly a year ago. During a vacation home in January, he and his partner went to a private clinic in Kyiv, IVMED, that is waiving the $55 cost of cryopreservation for soldiers. The clinic has had about 100 soldiers freeze sperm since the invasion, says its chief doctor, Halyna Strelko. Assisted conception services to get pregnant currently cost $800 to $3,500. “We don’t know how else to help. We can only make children or help make them. We don’t have weapons, we can’t fight, but what we do is also important,” said Strelko, whose clinic had to close during the first months of the war as Kyiv was under attack but reopened after the Russian military retreated from the area. 11:35 a.m.: The Russian ruble struck its weakest mark since late April on Tuesday, hurt by lower foreign currency revenue inflows from hydrocarbon exports and a continued recovery in imports as companies build new supply chains, Reuters reported. The ruble was 0.1% weaker against the dollar at 73.88, having hit 73.9850 during the session, its lowest point since April 25. The Russian currency lost 0.3% to trade at 79.26 versus the euro and shed 0.3% against the yuan to 10.83. The ruble’s weakening from around the 68 mark to the dollar in mid-January to current levels can be explained mainly by foreign exchange market dynamics and imports, Alfa Capital analysts said. 11:15 a.m.: In Ukraine, searing images taken by @AP photographers captured a year of war. Russia’s invasion brought death, destruction, displacement and hardship to the country, and awakened fears of a new Cold War. https://t.co/XKoywJ0ZVt 10:45 a.m.: U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin says Ukraine is "contemplating an offensive" in the spring, only weeks away, VOA’s senior diplomatic correspondent Cindy Saine reported. Austin spoke at a press conference following Tuesday’s meeting of the U.S.-led Ukraine Defense Contact Group in Brussels. "What Ukraine wants to do at the first possible moment is to establish or create momentum and establish conditions on the battlefield that continue to be in its favor. And so we expect to see them conduct an offensive sometime in the spring,” Austin said. “And because of that we and all the partners in the in the Ukraine defense contact group have been working hard to ensure that they have the armored capability ...they need," he added. Gen Milley and I are laser focused on the 🇺🇸 US’ unwavering support for Ukraine. Our allies in the UDCG are united and committed to continuing the urgent work necessary for Ukraine’s security assistance needs. pic.twitter.com/F4Vg0fKU2e Tuesday's meeting of defense heads from several NATO countries follows a January 20 conference at the Ramstein Air Base in Germany that was key to decisions to send Kyiv scores of modern battle tanks, including the U.S. M1 Abrams, German Leopard 2 and British Challenger 2. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and other Ukrainian officials have since been urging allies to send fighter aircraft and long-range missiles to counter the offensive and recapture lost territory, pressuring NATO to demonstrate support for Kyiv. Germany started training Ukrainian soldiers on the Leopard 2 tanks on Monday at an army base in the northern town of Munster where Ukrainian troops are already exercising on Marder infantry fighting vehicles that will also be handed over to Kyiv. 10:00 a.m.: Russian forces continued their attacks on Ukrainian towns in the eastern Donetsk region on Tuesday, as Ukraine’s Western allies gathered in Brussels to discuss possible further military aid for Kyiv, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty reported. Ukrainian officials said Russian artillery was hitting targets all along the front lines in Donetsk, including the contested city of Bakhmut, a key target for Russia’s invading army. "There is not a single square meter in Bakhmut that is safe or that is not in range of enemy fire or drones," regional Governor Pavlo Kyrylenko told Ukrainian media. 9:45 a.m.: In the city of Chasiv Yar, just a few kilometers from the frontline city of Bakhmut, Ukrainian troops are battling to retain control of a critical road linking the two cities. @currenttimetv's Borys Sachalko reports: pic.twitter.com/dmwWVONqG9 9:15 a.m.: The Kremlin said on Tuesday that the U.S.-led NATO military alliance demonstrated its hostility towards Russia every day, and was becoming more and more involved in the conflict in Ukraine, Reuters reported. "NATO is an organization which is hostile to us and which proves this hostility every day," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters. "It is trying its best to make its involvement in the conflict around Ukraine as clear as possible," Peskov added. Moscow has said weapons supplies to Ukraine by NATO countries are dragging out the conflict and raising the possibility of a further escalation. Kyiv and the West say deliveries of advanced military hardware are crucial in helping Ukraine defend itself against Russia's offensive. 8:50 a.m.: Ukraine on Tuesday renewed its appeal to Western countries for fighter jets to help frustrate Moscow’s invasion, as senior defense officials from the United States and its NATO allies said the war with Russia is approaching a critical stage, The Associated Press reported. With the war set to enter its second year at the end of next week, the Ukraine contact group met at NATO headquarters in Brussels and Ukraine made its requirements clear. Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov, when asked what military aid his country is seeking now, showed reporters an image of a fighter jet. Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy pushed hard for combat planes last week when he visited London, Paris and Brussels on just his second foreign trip since Russia invaded on Feb. 24, 2022. His plea came days after Western allies pledged to provide Kyiv with tanks. NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg, asked when he expects Russia’s so-called spring offensive to begin, said that “the reality is that we have seen the start already.” He told reporters in Brussels, “For me, this just highlights the importance of timing. It’s urgent to provide Ukraine with more weapons.” The possibility of sending combat aircraft to Ukraine is still being discussed. The United States has said no to sending fighter jets for Ukraine, but the United Kingdom is assessing the possibility and, on Tuesday, Dutch Defense Minister Kajsa Ollongren said providing jets “has to be part of the consideration.” German Defense Minister Boris Pistorius said that finding ammunition and air defenses is “much more important at the moment than the discussion about fighter jets.” He said Ukraine’s partners “should focus on what is now at center stage, particularly in view of a Russian offensive that is apparently taking place.” 8:25 a.m.: The U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency this morning released an unclassified report confirming the use of three variety of Iranian-made drones by Russia in its war against Ukraine. The report is short and relies almost exclusively on visual comparisons. VOA’s national security correspondent Jeff Seldin shared the key images on Twitter. .@DefenseIntel comparison of #Iran's #Shahed-136 to #Russia's #Geran-2 pic.twitter.com/yLNmubWDOB 8:10 a.m.: Russia’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs has failed to renew the media accreditation and visa for one of Finland’s journalists, a media advocacy group said Monday. Arja Paananen, who works for Finland’s Ilta-Sanomat has reported from Moscow since the 1990s but she left in October 2022 when her visa expired. The foreign ministry in August had criticized Paananen’s coverage, deeming an editorial on a speech about Putin as a “blatant example of anti-Russian propaganda” the Committee to Protect Journalists reported. 7:55 a.m.: His private army is pushing hard to give Russia a battlefield win in Ukraine, but mounting evidence suggests the Kremlin has moved to curb what it sees as the excessive political clout of Yevgeny Prigozhin, founder of Russia's Wagner mercenary group, Reuters reported. Prigozhin, a 61-year-old ex-convict, has grabbed headlines in recent months over his bloody role in Ukraine and is sometimes portrayed in the West as a real-life James Bond villain. Shaven-headed and fond of coarse language, he has made a splash in Russian-language media too where he has reveled in being sanctioned by the West, publicly insulted Russia's top military brass, tried to parlay battlefield success into Kremlin favor, and detailed his recruitment of tens of thousands of convicts for his private army. His profile became so prominent that allies and analysts began speculating he was angling for an official job or career in politics. 7:40 a.m.: A flash drive left behind by fleeing Russian forces in Ukraine contains hundreds of documents which identify key officials involved in handling, and allegedly torturing, civilians in occupied areas. @cxemu obtained the flash drive and has exclusive details ⬇️ pic.twitter.com/BPnLzOg9bD 7:05 a.m.: Kyrgyzstan will host a Russia-led security bloc's peacekeeping drills this year instead of Armenia, which last month declined to host the exercise, the bloc's chief of staff said on Tuesday, according to Reuters. Armenia, engaged in a dispute with Azerbaijan over the Nagorno-Karabakh region, said last month it would be unreasonable for it to host the drills of the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) in the near future. Anatoly Sidorov, the chief of the CTSO united staff, told a briefing on Tuesday that Kyrgyzstan has volunteered to host the "Indestructible Brotherhood" drills. He provided no further details. Asked about the bloc's potential deployment in Ukraine, Sidorov said he saw no need for that. 6:50 a.m.: Germany has signed a deal for new ammunition for self-propelled anti-aircraft guns it provided to Ukraine to be produced at home after it ran into difficulties securing supplies from elsewhere, the defense minister said Tuesday, according to The Associated Press. Germany has supplied 32 of the Gepard anti-aircraft guns since it first agreed to send them to Ukraine in late April, and has pledged 37 in total. The German military hasn’t used them since 2012, so they came from stocks held in reserve by the defense industry. Securing more ammunition for the guns has been a challenge, a matter of mounting concern as defense against repeated barrages of Russian missile and drone strikes has become a top priority for Kyiv. Germany so far has been unsuccessful in months of efforts to persuade neutral Switzerland to approve exports to Ukraine of stockpiles in the Alpine country of Gepard ammunition, which was manufactured there by a subsidiary of German defense company Rheinmetall. There are also stocks of the ammunition in Brazil, but President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva made clear when German Chancellor Olaf Scholz visited last month that his country wants no involvement of any kind in the war in Ukraine and wouldn’t provide Germany with any. 6:25 a.m.: VOA's Myroslava Gongadze is in Poland where Ukrainian military personnel train with the newly arrived Leopard 2 tanks Monday. The German-made Leopard 2 tanks were offered to Ukraine by European countries and Canada to help fight the Russian invasion. https://t.co/YWsHrZRO42 pic.twitter.com/Q2jbGK0o3T 6:10 a.m.: Russian attacks across eight Ukrainian regions killed three people and injured six others over the past 24 hours, The Kyiv Independent reported Tuesday.

Russia hit 15 settlements in the Donetsk region, killing one civilian and injuring three more, the media organization said, quoting Governor Pavlo Kyrylenko. 6:00 a.m.: Meticulously crafted over decades as a major revenue stream for the Kremlin, Moscow's gas trade with Europe is unlikely to recover from the ravages of military conflict. After President Vladimir Putin's "special military operation" in Ukraine began almost a year ago, a combination of Western sanctions and Russia's decision to cut supplies to Europe drastically reduced the country's energy exports. The latest sanctions, including price caps, are likely to disrupt oil trade further but it is easier to find new markets for crude and refined products than for gas. Reuters had the full story. 5:45 a.m.: One Ukrainian worker has been killed and many have been hurt in recent days trying to repair the power network following Russian air strikes, Energy Minister German Galushchenko said on Tuesday, according to Reuters. Russia struck energy facilities across Ukraine in the latest wave of air strikes on Friday, but Galushchenko and national grid operator Ukrenergo said the country was producing enough energy to meet consumers' needs. "With the incredible efforts of energy workers, it's possible to keep the generation, delivery and distribution of electricity at the required level to meet the needs of consumers," Galushchenko said in a statement. "These successes have their own high price, the price of human life. In frontline areas, energy workers work under fire and in dangerous places." He said there had been a number of accidents "in recent days," including incidents in which workers were hurt at energy companies in the southern region of Mykolayiv and in the northeastern region of Kharkiv. "Mines blew up the cars of repairmen of Mykolaivbolenergo and Kharkivbolenergo. There is a dead person, many wounded," Galushchenko said, without indicating how badly the surviving workers had been hurt. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy hailed the professionalism of Ukrainian energy workers in a video address on Sunday, praising the speed at which they had restored power to the nation. Ukrenergo said power plants were now generating enough electricity to cover consumption, with increased output at hydroelectric power stations helping make up for one unit being out of service at a thermal plant. "There is currently no capacity deficit in the power system," Ukrenergo said. It said the electricity supply may have to be limited later on Tuesday in the southern region of Odesa after damage to the network there. Galushchenko said outages were also possible in the western Khmelnitskyi region to enable repairs. 5:20 a.m.: #Ramstein 9 has begun.It’s going to be a very productive day.Will share the details with you after we finish. pic.twitter.com/vSZYceklBN 4:45 a.m.: At the start of Tuesday’s meeting of the U.S.-led Ukraine Defense Contact Group, U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said Ukraine has “urgent requirements to help it meet this crucial moment in the course of the war” and called on the group to intensify its focus. “The Kremlin is still betting that it can wait us out,” Austin said. “But one year on, we are united as ever, and that shared resolve will help sustain Ukraine’s momentum in the weeks ahead and help Ukraine travel the challenging road that lies beyond.” 4:35 a.m.: NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg said Tuesday it was important Sweden and Finland joined NATO as soon as possible, but ratifying them at the same time was not the "main question", according to Agence France-Presse. Parliaments in all 30 members of the military alliance must formally ratify Finland and Sweden before they can be admitted. Turkey and Hungary are the only two NATO members not to have done this. Stoltenberg's comments come after Turkey suggested it could greenlight Finland's bid to join without accepting Sweden into the alliance. "So the main question is not whether Finland and Sweden are ratified together. The main question is that they are both ratified as full members as soon as possible," Stoltenberg said ahead of a meeting of NATO allies. "I'm confident that both will be full members and we are working hard to get both ratified as soon as possible," the NATO secretary general added. Finland insists its "strong desire" remains to join NATO together with Sweden. But a majority of Finns said in a poll this month that they wanted to join NATO even if Sweden's membership was delayed. 4:05 a.m.: According to the latest estimates from Norway, Agence France-Presse reported, the conflict has wounded or killed 180,000 Russian soldiers and 100,000 Ukrainian troops. Other Western sources estimate the war has caused 150,000 casualties on each side. AFP gives the comparison that some 15,000 Soviet soldiers were killed in a whole decade of fighting in Afghanistan from 1979 to 1989. AFP provided a further, in-depth look at the conflict, by the numbers. 3:30 a.m.: Shipping and coastal communities around Ukraine's major seaport hub of Odesa received a warning from military officials on Tuesday over the high risk of naval mines drifting along the coast and washing ashore, Reuters reported. Ukraine and Russia have accused each other of using mines off the Ukrainian coast, which prevents safe navigation in the region. The Soviet-made mines were anchored, but in a storm some of them could come loose and be carried by the current. "There is a high probability of naval mines breaking off their anchors and washing up on the shore, as well as drifting along the coast," Serhiy Bratchuk, spokesman of Odesa military administration, wrote on Telegram messaging app. "Since March last year, Russia has continued to use anti-ship mines on anchors as an unguided weapon against Ukraine," he said in a separate video. Russia blockaded Odesa's ports — the main loading points for Ukrainian grain exports, after its forces invaded Ukraine in late February 2022. Russia calls the invasion a "special military operation." The blockade was lifted on three Ukrainian Black Sea ports at the end of July under a deal between Moscow and Kyiv brokered by the United Nations and Turkey. And between then and the end of January, Ukraine exported more than 17 million tons of grain and oilseeds through the safe passage corridor, Ukrainian grain traders union UGA said last week. The union noted that in January 2023, exports of agricultural products "decreased significantly due to deliberate delays in ship inspections by Russia." Russia has denied the accusations. Ukraine grain exports in the 2022/23 season, which runs through to June, are down 28.7% to 29.2 million tons as of February 13, due to a smaller harvest and logistical difficulties caused by the Russian invasion, agriculture ministry data showed on Monday. 2:45 a.m.: Reuters reported that Russia rejected on Tuesday an accusation by Moldova's president that Moscow is plotting to destabilize the former Soviet republic. Moldova's president, Maia Sandu, said on Monday that Russia was planning to use foreign saboteurs to bring down her tiny country's leadership, stop it joining the European Union and use it in the war against Ukraine. "Such claims are completely unfounded and unsubstantiated," Russia's foreign ministry said in a statement. Russia blamed Ukraine for stirring tension between Russia and Moldova, saying Kyiv was trying to draw Moldova "into a tough confrontation with Russia." Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said last week his country had uncovered a Russian intelligence plan "for the destruction of Moldova." Days later, Moldova's government resigned. Sandu, whose country borders Ukraine, has repeatedly expressed concern about Russia's intentions and about the presence of Russian troops in the breakaway Transdniestria region. 1:55 a.m.: Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 14 February 2023 Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/twjoin3xm1🇺🇦 #StandWithUkraine 🇺🇦 pic.twitter.com/RgIBKAGUOO 1:10 a.m.: Agence France-Presse reported that a South Korean court on Tuesday granted two Russian asylum seekers who have been stranded at Incheon airport for months the right to apply for refugee status, allowing them to enter the country. The Incheon District Court rejected one other Russian national's plea, without detailing the reasons for their decision. The three men, whose lawyer requested they not be named out of concern for the safety of their families in Russia, have been living inside Incheon International Airport since October when they fled to avoid being drafted to fight in Ukraine. They landed in South Korea with hopes of being granted asylum, but the country's Justice Ministry rejected their refugee applications at the airport. Seeking to avoid enlistment does not qualify as a valid reason for receiving refugee status in South Korea, where all able-bodied men must serve 18 months of compulsory military service. The rejection prompted the three men to bring the case to court, while they remained stranded in transit areas at the airport for months. "We welcome the court's decision on the two but it is regrettable that it rejected the other one's plea," said attorney Lee Jong-chan, who represents the three Russians. "They came here trying to avoid killing innocent people and getting themselves killed in a war initiated by their home country. It took them four months just to win the right to apply for refugee status," he said. The two will end their months-long airport stay and be settled in South Korea while undergoing the asylum recognition process, which could take years. The third Russian has the right to appeal, but will have to remain at the airport in the interim. There are two more Russians trapped at the airport who have also been denied the right to apply for asylum. The court will rule on their cases later this month. South Korea has signed international conventions on refugees but typically accepts just a handful of asylum seekers each year. 12:35 a.m.: Ukraine denied Russia's earlier claim that it had seized control of Krasna Hora, a village about 5 kilometers north of Bakhmut in the eastern Donetsk Oblast, The Kyiv Independent reported. "There are ongoing battles there," Serhii Cherevatyi, spokesperson for the Eastern Grouping of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, told CNN. "We are keeping it under our control." Bakhmut remains the primary focus of the Russian aggression, according to Cherevatyi. 12:01 a.m.: Two Dutch F-35 fighters intercepted a formation of three Russian military aircraft near Poland and escorted them out, the Netherlands' defense ministry said in a statement late on Monday. "The then unknown aircraft approached the Polish NATO area of responsibility from Kaliningrad," according to Reuters' translation of the ministry's statement. Kaliningrad is a Russian Baltic coast enclave located between NATO and European Union members Poland and Lithuania. "After identification, it turned out to be three aircraft: a Russian IL-20M Coot-A that was escorted by two Su-27 Flankers. The Dutch F-35s escorted the formation from a distance and handed over the escort to NATO partners." The Il-20M Coot-A is NATO's reporting name for the Russian Ilyushin Il-20M reconnaissance aircraft while the Su-27 Flankers are NATO's reporting name for the Sukhoi Su-28 fighter aircraft. Russia's defense ministry did not immediately respond to Reuters' request for a comment. The Netherlands' defense ministry said that eight Dutch F-35s are stationed in Poland for February and March. Some information in this report came from Reuters and Agence France-Presse.