The United States military reported Sunday that 12 al-Shabab militants were killed in a new airstrike in central Somalia. The U.S. Africa Command known as AFRICOM said in a statement that the “collective self-defense” strike occurred February 10 “at the request of the Federal Government of Somalia.” The strike occurred in a remote area approximately 45 kilometers (28 miles) southwest of the Indian Ocean port town of Hobyo, about 472 kilometers (293 miles) northeast of Mogadishu, according to the statement. AFRICOM did not specify the location, but Somali government media reported it took place in Donlaye, near Amara town in Galmudug state. The Somali government claimed 117 militants were killed in Friday’s operation. 117 Alshabab terrorists were killed in a operation carried out by Somali National Army and Galmudug regional forces with support of airstrike from Somalia’s international security partners in Donlaye, near Amara town, SNA’s Infantry chief, G. M. Tahalil told @RadioMuqdisho. pic.twitter.com/Vrw4ekXNim Brigadier General Mohamed Tahlil Bihi, infantry commander of the Somali national army, told state media that the militants were in trenches fighting against Somali government forces. He also confirmed an airstrike targeted the militants during the firefight with Somali forces. AFRICOM said the strike took place in a remote location and assessed that no civilians were injured or killed. “U.S. Africa Command will continue to assess the results of this operation and will provide additional information as appropriate,” the statement read. “Specific details about the units involved and assets used will not be released in order to ensure operations security.” It’s the fourth “collective self-defense” strike by the U.S. military in Somalia this year. The previous three strikes occurred January 20 near Galcad town, killing approximately 30 al-Shabab fighters, January 23 near Harardhere town, killing two militants; and a January 25 near Harardhere which killed four militants. In addition, the U.S. conducted a counterterrorism operation January 26 that killed Bilal al-Sudani, a key Islamic State Somalia branch commander in the Cal-Miskaad mountains in the Puntland semi-autonomous region. The Somali government has been engaged in military operations aimed at recovering territories from al-Shabab. The U.S. and Turkish governments have been providing air support to the Somali army. Both governments are also training elite Somali forces who have been at the forefront of the recent military operations. Editor's note: Corrects story to clarify that latest strike was the fourth “collective self-defense” strike by the U.S. military in Somalia this year.