For full coverage of the crisis in Ukraine, visit Flashpoint Ukraine. The latest developments in Russia’s war on Ukraine. All times EST. 9:25 a.m.: Mikhail Razvozhayev, the Moscow-appointed governor of Sevastopol, said the fire had broken out in a dormitory for workers building the Tavrida Highway, a new road linking the cities of Sevastopol and Simferopol.https://t.co/APxri2s5oA 9:10 a.m.: Ukraine has restarted several repaired power units at thermal power plants damaged in Russian missile attacks, easing the country's power shortages, Reuters reported, quoting the energy ministry.

Russian attacks on energy facilities have led to widespread power shortages and blackouts for millions of people.

Officials have said about 40% of the system has been damaged.

"The expected deficit at the evening peak will be about 19% of demand," the ministry said on Telegram messaging app on Thursday.

The power shortage reached 25% at the end of January.

The ministry said warm weather could also help reduce demand on the strained power system. 8:50 a.m.: Damian Duda is a military paramedic from Poland who has volunteered to save lives on the front line near the eastern Ukrainian city of Soledar. He volunteered to work in Ukraine in 2014 and returned in 2022. Sometimes, injured Russian soldiers end up in his vehicle. Current Time, a co-production of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty and VOA, has this report. 8:35 a.m.: President Vladimir Putin was expected to use an event on Thursday to mark the Soviet victory over Nazi Germany in Stalingrad 80 years ago to rally Russians around his military campaign in Ukraine, Reuters reported. He was due to give a speech during the afternoon in Volgograd, the city in southern Russia which until 1961 was called Stalingrad. It was the location of the bloodiest battle of World War Two when the Soviet Red Army, at a cost of over 1 million casualties, broke the back of advancing German forces. The commemoration came as Russian forces in Ukraine are making incremental gains in the east as Moscow tries to step up what it calls its "special military operation" in the face of fierce Ukrainian resistance. Thousands of people lined Volgograd's streets on Thursday to watch a victory parade as planes flew overhead and modern and World War Two-era tanks and armored vehicles trundled by. 8:20 a.m.: “I have no moral right to ask Ukrainians for forgiveness. I can’t forgive myself." Konstantin Yefremov, a Russian army officer witnessed looting and torture committed by Russian troops in Ukraine. He told BBC he left the army and fled abroad. https://t.co/RAumB2HYjl 8:05 a.m.: Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Thursday that Russian forces would respond to the delivery of longer-range Western weapons to Kyiv by trying to push Ukrainian forces further away from its borders to create a safe buffer zone, Reuters reported.

Lavrov told state TV that everybody wanted the conflict in Ukraine - which Moscow calls a "special military operation" - to end, but that the West's support for Kyiv was playing an important role in how Russia approached the campaign.

Two U.S. officials told Reuters on Tuesday that Washington was preparing a new package of military aid worth $2.2 billion which is expected to include longer-range rockets for the first time.

"We see how the whole of NATO is waging war against us," Lavrov said.

"We're now seeking to push back Ukrainian army artillery to a distance that will not pose a threat to our territories," he added. "The greater the range of the weapons supplied to the Kyiv regime, the more we will have to push them back from territories which are part of our country." 7:45 a.m.: The United States is expected to send a new longer-range weapon to Ukraine that can strike deep behind the front lines of the nearly year-long conflict with Russia. Now, Russian forces will need to adapt or face potentially catastrophic losses https://t.co/eRauyfHuc1 7:30 a.m.: Ukraine's military says there are clear signs that Russian forces are getting ready for a major push in the east, where a stalemate continues despite months-long heavy fighting and intensive daily shelling by Moscow's troops, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty reported.

The shelling killed at least three people and wounded 20 others in Kramatorsk late on Wednesday. The head of the Donetsk regional military administration, Pavlo Kyrylenko, said a Russian rocket struck a residential building in Kramatorsk.

"The enemy is actively conducting reconnaissance, preparing for an offensive in certain directions," Ukraine's General Staff said in its daily report early on Thursday. "Despite heavy losses, it continues to attempt offensive actions in the Lyman, Bakhmut, Avdiyivka, and Novopavlivka areas [of Donetsk region]," the General Staff said.

Russian forces launched six missile strikes on Ukrainian targets during the past 24 hours, four of which hit the civilian infrastructure in Slovyansk, Kramatorsk, and Druzhkivka in Donetsk, as well as four air strikes and 73 salvoes from multiple rocket launchers, the military said.

The situation on the front line has become more difficult, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said on Wednesday. "A definite increase has been noted in the offensive operations of the occupiers on the front in the east of our country. The situation has become tougher," Zelenskyy said in his evening video address.

Zelenskyy said the Russians were trying to make gains that they could show on the first anniversary of the war on February 24. 7:15 a.m.: Shelling killed at least three people in the Ukrainian city of Kramatorsk late on February 1. Read more here: https://t.co/BEWNBeVack pic.twitter.com/9kyfet0jjN 7:00 a.m.: Rescuers combed debris in a city in eastern Ukraine on Thursday, where an overnight Russian missile strike destroyed an apartment building and damaged nine others, killing at least three people, Reuters reported.

The police force said the apartments in the city of Kramatorsk were hit by an Iskander-K tactical missile at 9.45 pm local time (1945 GMT). Earlier reports had described it as an attack with a rocket.

“Ten apartment buildings were damaged, one partially collapsed. Search and rescue work, which continued all night, is still under way,” police said in a statement.

The dead include a husband and wife and a 61-year-old pensioner, whose daughter was still believed to be missing. Eighteen people were also wounded.

The city is close to the front line in eastern Ukraine and many residents have fled or regularly hide in cellars, which may have saved lives compared to similar attacks elsewhere.

6:50 a.m.: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called on Thursday for more punitive measures against Russia by the European Union and said he had discussed a new EU sanctions package with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, according to Reuters.

Zelenskyy, speaking at a joint news conference in Kyiv with von der Leyen, said the speed of the EU sanctions campaign against Russia had "slightly slowed down" and should be stepped up.

6:40 a.m.: ⚡️European Commission President, EU foreign policy chief arrive in Kyiv for Ukraine-EU summit. On the eve of the summit set for Feb. 3, consultations will be held between the European Commission and the Ukrainian government.📷Ursula von der Leyen, Josep Borrell/Twitter pic.twitter.com/NYQVoha5al 6:35 a.m.: The Austrian government says it has ordered four diplomats based in Vienna, including two at Moscow’s mission to United Nations agencies in the city, to leave the country, The Associated Press reported. The Foreign Ministry said in a brief statement on Thursday that two diplomats the Russian Embassy had “engaged in acts incompatible with their diplomatic status” and two at the permanent mission to the U.N. in Vienna “committed acts incompatible with the Headquarters Agreement.” It didn’t elaborate. The diplomats were given a week to leave Austria. Western European nations and Russia have expelled each others’ diplomats on several occasions since Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine started nearly a year ago. 6:20 a.m.: Over a dozen top European Union officials visited Kyiv on Thursday to promise military, financial and political aid and show support for Ukraine before the first anniversary of Russia's invasion, Reuters reported. But unwilling to admit a country at war, the EU is set to dash Ukraine's hopes of being swiftly allowed membership, underlining the need for more anti-corruption measures. It is the first gathering of members of the EU's executive European Commission in Kyiv since the war began last February 24 and follows new Western pledges of arms deliveries to help Ukraine resist an expected new Russian offensive. Moscow has criticized the pledges, saying new weapon deliveries will escalate the conflict but not change its course. EU officials said talks would include discussion of more arms and money for Ukraine as well as more access for Ukrainian products to the EU market, helping Kyiv cover energy needs, sanctions on Russia, prosecuting Russia's leadership for the war and extending an EU no-roaming mobile calls zone to Ukraine. "It is a very strong signal that we are in Kyiv during the war. It's a signal to the Ukrainian people. It's a signal to Russia. It's a signal to the world," said a senior EU official. 5:33 a.m.: Russians' deposits with non-resident banks increased by about 2.5 times between January and November last year to around $82 billion according to the exchange rate at the time, Reuters reported Wednesday, citing the central bank. The bank said this did not mean that foreign currency deposits were necessarily flowing from Russian banks to foreign ones, however, as some deposits were converted into rubles or used to buy real estate. Deposits held abroad by Russians have been on the rise since Moscow launched what it calls a "special military operation" in Ukraine on Feb. 24, 2022, with hundreds of thousands choosing to emigrate. According to the central bank's monthly statistics, the biggest inflow of deposits to foreign banks was recorded in September last year at more than $9 billion, the month when Moscow launches a partial mobilization of troops. 5:04 a.m.: Imprisoned Russian opposition leader Alexey Navalny said in a social media post published Wednesday that prison authorities have placed him in a one-person cell for six months, a move his lawyer described as part of authorities' efforts to damage Navalny's health, The Associated Press reported. Navalny, 46, said on Instagram that he had been denied the opportunity to visit with his family for the past eight months. The move to solitary confinement means he will not see his wife and children for another half a year, he said. "Even maniacs and serial killers serving life sentences have the right for meetings, but I do not," he said. "When such thing happens to you, you understand even more acutely how important it is to fight this unscrupulous government, how important it is to do at least something to free Russia from the yoke of these scoundrels from Russia and dispel the dope with which they have enveloped the heads of millions." Navalny, who exposed official corruption and organized massive anti-Kremlin protests, is serving a nine-year fraud sentence in a maximum-security prison 250 kilometers east of Moscow. 4:15 a.m.: European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen arrived in Kyiv on Thursday for meetings intended to highlight support for Ukraine as the first anniversary of Russia's invasion nears. "Good to be back in Kyiv, my 4th time since Russia's invasion. This time, with my team of Commissioners," she wrote on Twitter under a photo of her arriving at a Kyiv railway station. "We are here together to show that the EU stands by Ukraine as firmly as ever. And to deepen further our support and cooperation." Members of the executive European Commission will meet members of the Ukrainian government Thursday. On Friday, von der Leyen and the chairman of the 27 European Union national leaders, Charles Michel, will meet President Volodymyr Zelenskiyy. 4:06 a.m.: The latest intelligence update from the U.K. defense ministry said that Russia's invasion of Ukraine has taken a toll on its business as an arms exporter. Russia will almost certainly make supplying its own troops its top priority, and "a shortage of components is likely affecting the production of equipment for export, such as armoured vehicles, attack helicopters, and air defense systems," the update said. 3:05 a.m.: The Institute for the Study of War, a U.S. think tank, said in its latest Ukraine assessment that Russian forces continued ground attacks northeast and southwest of Bakhmut along with limited ground attacks to regain lost positions on the Svatove-Kreminna line. Russian forces are also continuing to carry out unsuccessful disruption missions on islands in the Dnipro River delta in Kherson Oblast in an effort to prevent Ukrainian forces from gaining ground on the islands. 2:07 a.m.: The Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia have completed their withdrawal from two international development banks with majority Russian ownership and roots in the Soviet era, Reuters reported Wednesday, citing the Czech Finance Ministry. The Czechs began to exit the Budapest-based International Investment Bank (IIB) and the Moscow-based International Bank for Economic Co-operation (IBEC) at the start of 2021 and vowed to speed up the process after Russia attacked Ukraine last February. Poland and Slovakia have also completed their withdrawal, while Romania will exit in June and Bulgaria is expected to follow at some point this year, the Czech ministry said in a statement. 1:03 a.m.: Russia's car industry posted its worst showing in 2022 since the collapse of the Soviet Union, with production slumping 67% as Western sanctions and an exodus of global carmakers compressed the market, data showed Wednesday, according to Reuters. Factories in Russia produced 450,000 passenger cars in 2022, according to the data from the Rosstat federal statistics service. Prior to 2022, the worst year for Russia's car production since the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union had been 2009, in the aftermath of the global financial crisis, when Russian factories produced almost 600,000 passenger cars, data from analytical agency ASM-Holding showed. Russia's automotive sector has struggled under the weight of sanctions imposed by Western countries after Moscow's despatched tens of thousands of troops to Ukraine last February. Meanwhile, global carmakers who had built factories in Russia in recent decades left the country in droves and terminated supplies in the process. 12:02 a.m.: Bulgaria on Wednesday approved a resolution declaring that the 1930s starvation of millions in Ukraine under Soviet leader Joseph Stalin was an act of "genocide," Agence France-Presse reported. The parliament of the EU member, where a large part of public opinion remains pro-Russian, adopted the resolution with 134 votes in favor and 26 against. The resolution says that "any denial, justification or underestimation of this genocide flouts the memory of the millions of people who perished." Victims of the 1932-33 Holodomor, Ukrainian for "death by starvation," will now be commemorated in Bulgaria, Moscow's closest ally under communism, each year on the last Saturday in February. The Bulgarian Socialist party — heir to the former communist party — boycotted the vote, while the pro-Russian party Vazrajdane voted against it. Some information in this report came from Agence France-Presse, The Associated Press and Reuters.